Racing: Prix de L'Arc de Triomphe: Britain's faith in Class value: Europe's richest race brings another opportunity for Britain's most fearless trainer to tilt at a top prize.
The Newmarket trainer runs Top Class in the Longchamp spectacular and the faithful backing Brittain will expect to be laughing all the way to the bank as they help themselves to the generous 40-1 on offer.
What the cynics overlook, however, is that when Brittain tilts at windmills, it is the windmills that frequently come off second best.
Perhaps Brittain has been the chief contributor to his reputation by running horses in events in which they appear out of their depth.
Those who have cottoned on to the streak of genius in Brittain's seemingly eccentric modus operandi have struck a rich vein of gold as the stable's horses are often priced a good deal longer than they should be.
Helping punters outwit the bookies is something that gives Brittain real pleasure and he recalls with pride how an acquaintance made an exceptionally nice profit when the trainer's Terimon took second place to Nashwan in this year's Derby.
‘A man I know who works in a tailor's shop in London backed Terimon in a forecast with Nashwan at 2,000-1,’ Brittain explains.
‘He won enough to set himself up in his own business, so if you see a ‘Terimon Cafe’ on the outskirts of London you'll know how it got the name.’
Brittain categorically denies that he is merely ‘having a go’ when he flies in the face of the form book.
Rarely on the defensive when questioned about his charges — unlike so many of his tight-lipped contemporaries — his attacking policy has reaped a particularly golden harvest overseas.
His victories with Pebbles in the Breeders' Cup Turf and Jupiter Island in the Japan Cup — the only successes by a Briton in the events — were superb feats, but perhaps even more laudable was his achievement in saddling Bold Arrangement to take second in the Kentucky Derby, a unique venture the know-alls told him was not even worth attempting.
Top Class ran a fine Arc trial when third to Nashwan and Cacoethes in Ascot's King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes, the same position filled by Tony Bin last year before he went on to win the Arc.
Brittain believes that Top Class would have caused Nashwan and Cacoethes a lot more problems had he not gone to the front so early.
Racing is often cruelly unfair, however, and while Top Class looks marvellous each-way value, Brittain's dreams of victory could be wrecked by Golden Pheasant, a horse he trained in the early part of the season.
A disagreement with Golden Pheasant's American owner over the sale of the colt after he had finished second to Old Vic in the Chester Vase, led to Brittain asking her to remove all her horses.
Now in the care of a young Englishman, Jonathan Pease, at Chantilly, Golden Pheasant inflicted Nashwan's only defeat when he took the Prix Niel over the Arc course and distance three weeks ago and, being lightly raced, he looks capable of improvement.
French Glory, who deprived Nashwan of second in the Niel, has the assistance of Pat Eddery, who will be trying for a record fifth Arc win.
Khalid Abdullah's colt must be respected, as must the French filly Young Mother, winner of the Prix Vermeille over the Arc course and Brittain's fancy.
Before the Arc, Luca Cumani's Statoblest may maintain the successful run of raiders in the Prix de l'Abbaye, in which there are five other British runners.
The British also make a strong challenge for the other big prizes at Longchamp, with Light Of Morn in today's Prix Dollar and Dancing Tribute in tomorrow's Prix de l'Opera our best chances.
Judo: White remains the stylist in a world of brute force: Philip Nicksan meets a fighter on the mat after throwing his weight around on behalf of the British judo team
This is partly because he has become the man most likely to win medals in the top competitions abroad — including the World Championships in Belgrade which start on Tuesday — notwithstanding his curiously fragile physique.
Far from the rugged nature of most combat sportsmen, he has been sidelined by injuries only too often during his career, though, in his eight-year period as Britain's top middleweight, he has won two European silver medals, a world bronze medal, and two Olympic fifth places.
His captaincy is partly due to his quiet, controlled manner and a confidence and authority that unnerves his opponents — on and off the competition mat.
Last month he was hauled before the management committee of the British Judo Association to explain a series of criticisms he had made in The Independent after the poor British results at the European Championships in Helsinki last May.
He stands by what he said, and, sadly, many of his criticisms are still valid: the team have still not bought a video camera despite a large injection of cash from the Sports Council and no one could say that the preparation training for the world championships — one weekend in the Kendal Judo Club — has been anything but derisory.
White duly came down to London from his home in Wolverhampton — he is the senior member of a remarkable quartet of Elvis Gordon, Dennis Stewart and the banned Kerrith Brown who have all won medals at world level, yet all train in the back room of an Edwardian bath house.
White faced the official carpeting, defused the attacks with a firm but polite dignity, and went off to catch the next train unaffected by the experience.
Characteristically, he refuses to make any secret of his work with Brown, whose Olympic drugs ban has one more year to run; nor, in loyal fashion, does he have any doubts that Brown will return to competition and go straight to the top.
‘There isn't a man in Britain who would be able to touch him at lightweight or light middleweight,’ he said.
Brown has been important to White because he provides the top-level training practice that has been so lacking in the build-up to this world championships.
Ten years ago, they toured the domestic junior competitions as gangly, gawky youths, winning most of them, and riding the knocks with humour.
He is the only middleweight to have beaten Austria's double Olympic champion, Peter Seisenbacher twice -and convincingly too.
When in peak condition, White is one of the most stylish throwers in a game which only too easily breaks down into brutishness.
His range alone is impressive: he can spring into a left uchimata (inner thigh throw) then twist right into a seoi-nage (shoulder throw) and still retain sufficient balance to produce a sparkling footsweep which will send his opponent crashing to the ground.
Even on a bad day he is worth watching, for a few seconds of his lightning, elegant attacks eclipses an evening of mauling aggression.
‘Judo has always been a technical sport for me — it must be the most complex of any in the Olympic Games,’ White said.
To win, you must throw your opponent, ideally on his back; or dispose of him on the ground with an armlock, strangle or 30 second hold.
He shrugs off his legacy of injuries — a fractured bone in his back, ripped Achilles tendons, the deep bruise on his face which he picked up on the way to winning a bronze medal in Poland.
There is scarcely a useful middleweight in the world whom he has not beaten with the one exception of the world champion, Fabien Canu of France.
Twice, White lost European finals to him;, on the last occasion, in 1988, he lost on a rather harsh penalty, but knew that at last he had the measure of the Frenchman.
I didn't get thrown very often, but that is no good if you still don't win a medal at the end of the day.
He declines to comment on the chances of the rest of the team, saying only that all have lacked the intensive training, with a sojourn in Japan, which they really needed.
‘I don't feel there are any young players coming through to threaten my position which is not good for me.
BRACKNELL Tigers and Livingston are Britain's survivors in Europe following their wins in the Champions Cup on Thursday night, but the week's honours went to Oldham Broadway Celtics, who made a glorious exit from the Korac Cup with a 98-91 win over Monaco in France.
Oldham trailed 91-85 with one minute and 50 seconds to play in their first-round, second-leg tie, but outscored the wealthy French 13-0 to win 98-91.
They lost 203-186 on aggregate, and on the long cost-saving coach drive back to Lancashire the players had ample time to contrast their status with that of Monaco.
His opposite number in Oldham, the mayor of the metropolitan borough council, had the best value this week, however, after the authority topped up Celtics' annual budget of £35,000 to finance short-term contracts for two extra players, Dip Donaldson and George Branch.
Both will play tomorrow at Gateshead for the defending National League champions, who cannot afford too many more domestic slips following their opening-day defeat at unbeaten Brixton.
Livingston play title-holders Jugoplastika Split, of Yugoslavia, while Bracknell face the 1987 and 1988 champions, Philips Milan.
Bracknell defeated Keflavik 106-91 in Iceland on Thursday for a 250-196 aggregate win, and are at home to Milan in the first leg on Thursday 26 October.
SUNDAY: Mark Calcavecchia's single-stroke win over Japan's Hajime Meshiai at St Andrews secures the Dunhill Cup and a measure of Ryder Cup consolation for the United States.
There is some consolation, too, for Formula One world champion, Ayrton Senna, for last week's crunch with Nigel Mansell in Portugal.
He takes first place in the Spanish Grand Prix at Jerez, although Alain Prost comes third to keep him on course for Senna's title.
MONDAY: With the qualifying match against Poland imminent, England's World Cup aspirations are raised when Bryan Robson, out with a fracture in his leg for 10 days, is unexpectedly named in Manchester United's squad for Tuesday's Littlewoods Cup tie against Portsmouth.
Nashwan, his trainer, Dick Hern, announces, will not be racing in Sunday's Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe at Longchamp, the scene of his only defeat.
Steve Whitton scores four goals and Dalian Atkinson three as Sheffield Wednesday increase their goalscoring record this season by 500 per cent, beating Aldershot 8-0 in their tie.
There is a minor triumph for British tennis when Jo Durie, Clare Wood and Anne Hobbs beat Indonesia 3-0 in the first round of the Federation Cup in Tokyo.
It emerges that Michael Knighton, the man who would be Manchester United chairman, is seeking help to salvage his attempted £20m takeover.
In the Littlewoods Cup, Scarborough, two goals down to Chelsea, score three times in seven minutes to go through 4-3 on aggregate.
A bright future — or at least a possible meeting with Mike Tyson — beckons for British heavyweight champion Gary Mason after he knocks out Tyrell Biggs in the seventh round of their Albert Hall bout.
THURSDAY: As the Old Trafford soap opera unfolds, Martin Edwards, United's chief executive, begins legal proceedings against Knighton for alleged breach of confidentiality in their dealings.
Ajax join English clubs in European exile, as UEFA bans the club for the next two years they qualify for Europe, as punishment for the previous week's crowd trouble, when the Austria Vienna goalkeeper was felled by a metal spike.
FRIDAY: The good news of Robson's call-up to the England squad is tempered by the withdrawal of Liverpool's John Barnes with a hamstring injury.
CRAIG WHITEHEAD, a Nottingham City forward, was yesterday banned for eight matches for the elbow tackle which smashed Jason Ramshaw's jaw, nose and cheekbone, and also may face a private prosecution on behalf of the 20-year-old Halifax player.
‘The League saw a video which clearly showed the elbow raised in an unprovoked attack on an inexperienced and defenceless opponent.
Brook's concern was compounded when Dick Fairbank, a Halifax forward dismissed in the same match for a transgression described by his president as ‘mere retaliatory fisticuffs’, received a five-match ban.
The other club to fall foul of the disciplinary committee yesterday was St Helens, who travel to Wakefield tomorrow without Roy Haggerty and Stuart Evans, both banned for four matches.
They were dismissed against Oldham last week, Evans in the final minute of a 36-6 defeat, after missing the start of the season through injury.
Evans, like Haggerty, is not in the Saints side for his cerebral contribution, though there was evidence against New Zealand last week that the giant prop is at last gaining an understanding of his league potential.
The Kiwi tour continues at Wigan, where after the Oldham upset, the home side need a confidence booster almost as badly as the visitors, whose efforts so far have been disjointed.
Jonathan Davies, almost disjointed in a literal sense in the act of try-scoring on Wednesday, will get a run in his favoured stand-off position if Tony Myler misses the new world champions' next challenge, Sheffield Eagles at Bramall Lane.
This afternoon, Kevin Tamati, last seen demonstrating an ability to talk fellow television commentators into submission, finds himself the object of Granada's broadcast as his new charges look for first points from Leigh.
Tamati has taken on a lot but life from here should not be dull for Salford's long-suffering support.
EALING can take advantage of England squad calls and move to the top of the Typhoo Women's National League today as two games involving teams with three or more players in the squad have been postponed, writes Bill Colwill.
THE FRENCH love to lay on the style and their over-the-top preliminaries -world's biggest scrum, Un Show Laser — to this week's Bicentenary match against the Lions in Paris gave the evening a sense of occasion which the rugby itself also justified.
The Scottish stand-off, who was among the Lions replacements, was forced to parade, bouquet in hand, from behind one set of posts to the red carpet on the half-wayline as chaperone to Mireille Mathieu, the French songstress who had just rendered all three verses of the Marseillaise (with the chorus repeated each time).
The anthem, flower-presentation, long walk and interminable announcements all took place after the teams had taken the field, where they were forced to kick their heels in a neat line for nearly a quarter of an hour during which the chanteuse and the French Army choir six times exhorted the crowd: ‘To Arms!’.
Mireille eventually met Rob Andrew, the Lions captain, and he too ended up with a bouquet, which he was still wondering how to dispose of as his players began to line up.
THE POTTERY kilns adorning Stoke's programme for the derby with Port Vale -‘Special Edition, £1’— looked a nice local touch.
‘Dedicated to making Vale No. 1 team in the Potteries, Bill also wants to find the Lost City of Atlantis, be first man to walk the Channel, and skateboard up Everest.’
I've told my son that I am going to get him a forged passport that will get him into the opposition penalty area.
Anybody who swears allegiance to United must share the same sense of dismay at what has happened, and what is still going on — for me, it's almost a sense of revulsion.
Perhaps he wanted second prize; not Jim Rosenthal's Book of Banal Alliteration, but two tickets to the US and £300 in cash.
THE MONICKER'S different but Monica's very much alike, claims Steve Tivey, from Wellingborough, after watching Muriel Gray, ScotNat television presenter, and Monica Seles, expat tennis pretender.
The Jesuit College of St Alban, an English seminary in Valladolid, this month celebrates the 400th anniversary of its foundation, the programme including Mass in Westminster Cathedral but, sadly, no return of the 1907 fixture with Real which the college won, though the result seems to have been lost in some priest-hole of history.
St Alban's never had a player capped, though many of their lads have gone on to be decapitated, especially in internationals.
The club mascot, a statue of Our Lady Vulnerata (the wounded Maradona?) was hacked about in 1589 by some (Lord) Essex supporters on their way back from Cadiz, but still stands in the chapel, a focus of prayer.
This last attraction may have special appeal to the article's audience, since it was published in the Millwall programme, raising the spectre of the League's most feared supporters tooled-up on the terraces, humming the William Tell theme instead of‘No one likes us.’
No, Bangkok, from where a Lions fan on a business trip (!) reported a ‘Millwall Unfashionable But Dangerous’ headline in The Nation.
‘I've been a Lions fan for about 15 years and it's great to see the look on the tourists’ faces when I walk around Bangkok in my ‘No One Likes Us We Don't Care’T-shirt,’wrote Mr Barrett.
Take her latest bulletin on whether she intends to retire, issued from Japan, where she is playing in the Federation Cup.
‘I'm not going to say that I stake my life on the fact that I'm never going to play another tournament.
But I would be surprised if I did after this year, although, at this stage, I am still playing well enough and I am enjoying it enough so that if I want to play another tournament, I can.’
Football: Toshack confronts his Real test: Shankly's protege carries the Liverpool creed to Madrid in a relentless pursuit of the European Cup: Patrick Barclay on the British manager putting the nice on ice in the hotbed of Spanish football
THEY SAY nice guys finish second, in which case John Toshack must have every chance of winning the Spanish championship for Real Madrid.
Though it is rare to find consensus among footballers and the media, few on either side had a good, or even printable, word for Toshack in Wales while he was marching Swansea to the top of the hill and down again.
In the Basque country, too, his successes as manager of Real Sociedad were somewhat grudgingly accepted; locals contrasted his surly manner with Howard Kendall's affability along the coast at Bilbao.
Well, I take as I find, and can only say that I was happy to do Toshack a favour a few years back when a friend, an international fixer with contacts in Portuguese football, rang to ask if anyone might be available to Sporting Lisbon.
Last week Toshack, back in character, directed inquiries to an agent in England, who firmly pointed out that his client was exclusively tied to The Sun.
Toshack has a two-year contract worth £600,000 (figure courtesy of The Sun) and an awful lot to do if he is to see it out.
Real have won the championship in each of the last four seasons, so that is almost taken for granted; his job is to win the European Cup, which the club last lifted in 1966.
Three times in succession they have fallen in the semi-finals, and Beenhakker's departure became a formality when they were thrashed 5-0 by Milan at San Siro last season.
The European champions, who host the first leg in 11 days' time, have lost Ruud Gullit and Marco Van Basten and are struggling for form.
So are Barcelona under Johan Cruyff, as if participating in a benign conspiracy: two good results for Real and the Toshack era takes off.
As one observer put it after goalless draws with Castellon and Mallorca: ‘Under Beenhakker, the little teams were slaughtered.’
Beenhakker, in his more candid moments, went close to admitting that senior players were in charge at the Bernabeu.
Toshack has wasted no time in putting his stamp on the side, moving the West German midfielder Bernd Schuster to libero, Michel from the right flank to central midfield, and giving the striker Emilio Butragueno a slightly withdrawn role.
Toshack has taken pains to play down the hard-man image he brought from San Sebastian, swearing that the extra training ordered after the poor performance at Castellon was not a punishment.
While Real are unbeaten, the relative honeymoon will continue for a man whom the late Bill Shankly, with characteristic caution, once said was destined to become ‘the top manager in the game’.
Toshack's admiration for Shankly, who signed him for Liverpool from Cardiff in 1970, is unquestionably deep: still the overwhelming influence on his career.
As a manager, initially player-manager, at Swansea, he leant heavily on former Liverpool club-mates: Tommy Smith, Ian Callaghan, Ray Kennedy, Phil Boersma, Alan Waddle and Colin Irwin all went to the Vetch Field.
Liverpool's next match was at home to Swansea, and shortly before kick-off the mourning Toshack appeared before the Kop in his old red No. 10 shirt.
There were later rumours that the gesture, however sincere, cost Toshack the Liverpool management when Bob Paisley retired; he had certainly seen Swansea as his apprenticeship.
The truth is that some members of the Liverpool board had misgivings about the way Swansea were run and wondered if Toshack might have picked up bad habits.
He made a brief, unsuccessful return, but his future was overseas: Lisbon first, and then San Sebastian, where the club's policy of using only Basque players (recently broken by the arrival of John Aldridge from Liverpool) limited his use of the cheque book.
Only those with short memories would subscribe to the notion that he guided a hick club to new heights — Real Sociedad were twice Spanish champions in the early Eighties — but his record was more than respectable.
A sample: We're coming in to land at Speke My legs are feeling very weak We've just returned from Barcelona And now I'm going for a sauna Toshack is of Scottish descent, and there is certainly a bit of McGonagall in there, though not the best bit.
MENTION big-time tennis venues round here and folk let you prattle on about Wimbledon, Roland Garros, Flushing Meadow and Flinders Park and then press a few claims of their own.
The West German boom, which started with Boris Becker's success at Wimbledon four years ago and was echoed by the prodigious achievements of Steffi Graf in winning the Grand Slam and Olympic gold last year, is developing into a national industry.
This year Becker and Graf, who were born six miles apart in small towns near Heidelberg, cornered the major prizes at both Wimbledon and the US Open.
In December, Stuttgart will host the Davis Cup final, in which the West Germans will defend the trophy they won for the first time by defeating Sweden in Gothenburg, and in the coming three years Frankfurt will stage the ATP Tour World Championship, which will supersede the Nabisco Masters in New York.
Here in Stuttgart today we shall see the final of an unofficial mini-Masters, the masters having taken a lucrative detour away from the pressures of the circuit.
Ion Tiriac, Becker's manager, devised the show last year as a maverick tournament to demonstrate that he deserved an opportunity to promote a fully fledged grand prix event.
In February, the Stuttgart Classic takes its place along with Hamburg as one of the $1m (£625,000) stops on the ATP Tour, adding to a growing list of reasons why West Germany is rapidly becoming the focal point of world tennis.
A private West German television company, SAT 1, will pay more than $5.2m per year to broadcast the tournament and other ATP events in Germany, and the mayor of Frankfurt, Dr Volker Hauff, has promised to ‘showcase’ the event with a week of concerts, exhibitions and international symposiums.
Tiriac is still miffed that the ATP final did not come to Stuttgart: ‘The ATP told me to join the auction, but I am too good to have to do that.’
He expresses scepticism about Frankfurt's boast of being able to fill their stadium for every session: ‘I don't think they will get 9,000 every day, but I would have achieved that here, where we have developed an audience for the game.
It is not like Hamburg, where they have had a tournament for a hundred years and people would go out and watch tennis at 7 am, even in the freezing cold.’
‘Imagine what it would mean to Britain if you had a player in Manchester and a player in Liverpool who won Wimbledon and the US Open,’ he said, boggling the mind.
Becker and Graf won Wimbledon and the US Open and did not get their pictures on the front cover of any non-tennis magazines here.’
Becker's photograph was in the German newspapers yesterday, accompanied by lamentations about his physical condition after a knee injury had caused him to abandon the Classic on Thursday.
They were not taking the hero for granted, but missing him madly and praying that he would be fit to return for the Davis Cup.
‘The Masters is important also, but if I have to choose I would prefer the Davis Cup to be the next big thing to win.’
This time last year Becker still carried the label of a one-surface player, two Wimbledon triumphs being the sole major achievements on his record.
Since then he has won the Masters, inspired his country to their first Davis Cup victory and added the US Open to a third Wimbledon title.
‘It astonishes me, to be quite honest,’ he said, showing that it is not all swagger on the courts over here.
FOR THE first time in three years Steffi Graf was yesterday reminded what it feels like to leave a tournament a quarter-final loser when West Germany were beaten 2-1 by Czechoslovakia in the Federation Cup here.
Clearly Graf was not amused by the experience as she quickly booked herself on the next flight home leaving her team-mates behind without telling them.
The world No. 1 gave the tie her best, however, but even that was not enough to make up for the shortcomings of her second in command, Claudia Kohde- Kilsch.
The latter player, once a top-10 performer but now languishing at No. 31 after a series of injuries and a great loss of confidence, was a bag of nerves.
First, she lost the opening singles match 6-3, 6-3 to Jana Novotna then she dithered far too often in the deciding doubles after Graf had, as expected, levelled the score by crushing Helena Sukova 6-2, 6-1 in the other singles match.
Indeed, the only good thing about their confrontation against Sukova and Novotna is that it took just 50 minutes to complete, with the established Czech combination sweeping to a 6-2, 6-2 victory and a place in the semi-finals against the United States.
It was a lesson not lost on Klaus Hofsaess, the West German team captain, who said: ‘It is absolutely necessary that Steffi plays doubles three or four times a year with a German player.’
‘If she is not prepared to play with another German player sometimes on the circuit then the German team has no chance in the future to win the Cup,’ Hofsaess added.
Many anglers are hailing it as the most significant advance in fishing tackle during the past 20 years and Dave Chilton, the man who has popularised its use, believes that the line, made from the world's strongest man-made fibre (Lancia uses it to strengthen the internal bodywork of its cars), may revolutionise all branches of the sport.
In many parts of the world, fish are still being caught by bow and arrow and it was a bowstring which first put Chilton, a Bolton lorry driver, on to the potential of the high-performance polyethylene fibres.
He had been experimenting with dental floss, which was multi-stranded but then broke when rubbed against rocks or weeds.
A fish will often reject a bait because the line's weight makes a maggot chunk of bread or artificial fly move unnaturally.
‘The fish don't seem to associate it with danger because of the very fine diameter of each strand, but also because of its weightlessness and extreme softness.
Initially, Chilton has only been able to persuade the makers to turn out spools of line with a 70lb breaking strain, strong enough to tow a boat.
Now he is churning out line with a 15lb breaking strain and it is proving so popular that he has now got rid of the old banger he had been driving around in for years and bought his first executive saloon.
This means that at the moment it is being used closest to the hook, where presentation and visibility are vital factors and, because it is so different to nylon, many users have problems knotting it.
It has brought outstanding success on waters where anglers were quite happy to catch a single fish in the course of a whole season's fishing.
Enlightened dry-fly anglers, too, have already been taking some tremendous catches with it and it will surely prove devastating for dapping, the earliest form of fly fishing, a method still used extensively in Ireland at certain times of year.
‘It is not simply a matter of buying a spool and catching millions of fish,’ Chilton said, ‘but the more skilful and forward-thinking anglers are developing its use all the time.
‘I'm just pleased I had the idea and that anglers with a lot more skill than me are showing what can be done with it,’ he said modestly.
The former lorry driver is now busy exporting Krystom throughout Europe and his only regret is that he no longer has time to go fishing.
FREE AT LAST entered 1,000 Guineas calculations after her victory in the Somerville Tattersall Stakes at rain-soaked Newmarket yesterday.
She won't run again this season, and will take her chance in the Guineas next spring,’ said Guy Harwood, the filly's trainer.
Tony Clark struck the front on Free At Last with a quarter of a mile to cover, and his mount held off Qui Danzig by a neck.
LUCA CUMANI, who built his reputation on success in big handicaps, complicates a cavalry charge of a Cambridgeshire Handicap at Newmarket today by saddling Shellac and Splendid Career, the two best-backed runners in the race.
Neither horse will have the benefit of their usual riding partners as Cumani's stable-jockey, Ray Cochrane, last night gave up his weekend rides as he was in pain from the shoulder injury sustained in the Doncaster pile-up three weeks ago.
So Lanfranco Dettori takes over from Cochrane on Cullinan at Phoenix Park today and on Legal Case and Statoblest at Longchamp tomorrow.
Choosing between Shellac and Splendid Career is made more difficult by the draw, as both colts will run up the stands rails from low numbers.
This could prove a significant advantage over their chief rivals — Blue Orca, Hard As Iron and Red Paddy, who are all drawn high on the far rails.
Last year's winner, Quinlan Terry, would not have beaten the second horse, the subsequent Group One race winner Ile De Chypre, had that rival not been drawn on the far side.
The heaviest betting this year has been for Shellac, a six-length winner from Sudden Victory at Ayr last time out, but the deciding factor is that Dettori originally chose to ride SPLENDID CAREER (nap 3.35), who may have been unlucky when beaten at Newbury by yesterday's Goodwood winner Monastery.
Some high-class fillies contest the Group Two Sun Chariot Stakes, including Tessla (3.00), who was winter favourite for the Oaks but has yet to win this season.
The rain should also help the chances of Pinctada (next best 5.10), for whom Rod Simpson has booked Willie Ryan, and Stoneythorpewonder (4.40).
The draw could also be decisive in the Cartier Million, run on the dog-leg straight at Phoenix Park, and Cumani has again been fortunate with Cullinan (4.0), drawn 16 of 20.
Following horses with a run under their belt may be the best advice for armchair punters retreating from an unprofitable Flat campaign.
Gavin Pritchard-Gordon's Peer Prince (3.10) has already won twice this season and could make that advantage tell over Josh Gifford's Zamil.
Over fences, Marshlander (2.35) takes a big step up in class after a hat-trick of recent victories.
But this front-runner has always battled with gameness and gets plenty of weight from Midnight Madness, a previous winner of this race.
Toby Balding gives Folk Dance (2.0) his seasonal debut over the sticks, but this gelding had a pipe-opener when finishing ninth on the Flat at Sandown last month.
The game has been brought forward from 5 November because Headingley has been chosen to stage the John Smiths Yorkshire Cup final on that date.
DARRYL PITT, the 23-year-old centre from Brisbane who arrived in England on Thursday, has signed for joint Second Division leaders Fulham.
THE ORGANISERS of the Portuguese Grand Prix, who fined Nigel Mansell $50,000 for allegedly breaking the rules during the race at Estoril on 24 September, said yesterday that their case concerned only the motor racing authorities and is not a civil action as previously thought.
Mansell's appeal, which involves only the fine and not his subsequent ban from the Spanish Grand Prix, will be heard on 18 October.
MARK ROBSON, the winger signed by Tottenham from Exeter for £50,000 in July 1987, has signed for Watford on a month's loan with a view to a permanent transfer.
Cardiff City have signed Leigh Barnard, the Swindon midfield player, for £25,000, while Bury have borrowed Gary Kelly, the Newcastle goalkeeper, also for a month.
MICHAEL WATSON'S World Boxing Association world middleweight title challenge against the Jamaican, Mike McCallum, has been brought forward to 29 November and switched to Alexandra Palace.
The same promoter, Barry Hearn, is to stage Jim McDonnell's World Boxing Council world super-featherweight title fight with Azumah Nelson of Ghana at the Royal Albert Hall on 5 November.
THE Chicago Cubs scored six runs in the first inning as they beat the San Francisco Giants 9-5 at Wrigley Field on Thursday to level the National League championship series at 1-1.
The Giants' starting pitcher, Rick Reuschel, was driven from the game after only 18 pitches as the Cubs' lead-off man, Jerome Walton, had two first-inning hits and Mark Grace three hits and four runs batted in.
(First Edition) THE ORGANISERS of the Portuguese Grand Prix, who fined Nigel Mansell and Ferrari $50,000 for allegedly breaking the rules during their race at Estoril on 24 September, said yesterday that their case concerned only the motor racing authorities and was not a civil action, as previously reported.
The Portuguese officials said they would hear the appeal on 18 October and confirmed the appeal only involved the fine and not the ban, which actually took effect at the Spanish Grand Prix last Sunday.
This will clear the way for the International Automobile Federation (FIA) to reach a conclusion on Mansell's appeal against his exclusion from the Grand Prix at Jerez.
The FIA court of appeal did not make a final decision in Paris on Thursday after a three-hour hearing to consider Mansell's evidence.
The three-man tribunal did allow, however, that the exclusion appeared to be too harsh for the alleged crime.
For this afternoon's rematch of the Welsh Cup finalists — Neath won that one 14-13 before 58,000 people at the Arms Park — Stradey has an upper limit of 18,700 and, if last season's equivalent is anything to go by, every available space may be needed.
That exhilarating game, which Llanelli won 27-21, attracted 20,000 to Stradey even though the official limit was some 5,000 fewer.
Since then safety work has pushed up that capacity and when the (New Zealand) All Blacks play there in three weeks it will be helped to 21,000 by a temporary stand erected over the Tanner Bank wall on the outfield of the adjacent cricket field, adding 2,300 spectators who need not be counted in the official figure.
The Welsh All Blacks, too, have an imminent engagement with their NZ counterparts, three days before the tourists play the Scarlets, and for both sides today's game is vital preparation.
These are the best teams in Wales and as such given the best chance — better, for sure, than Wales — of upsetting the New Zealanders.
Llanelli field seven internationals, Neath six, and both are well enough endowed to relegate a recently capped player — Carwyn Davies and Rowland Phillips — to the bench.
Neath's outside-half Paul Williams, who scored 268 points last season, is out for a fortnight with a rib injury and replaced by Jason Ball, who is the son of the club coach, Glen, and was once on Arsenal's books.
If Williams's injury drags on to threaten his participation against the All Blacks, Neath will be allowed to recall Adrian Davies from Cambridge University.
Lloyd Isaac, the outstanding reserve hooker to Kevin Phillips, is a longer-term casualty; a knee injury against Bath last Saturday required surgery and he will not be involved against New Zealand or for two months afterwards.
England, meanwhile, has another of the non-league, partly Anglo-Welsh club days which — with occasional exceptions such as Bath's visit to Neath — have been rendered peripheral by the coming of Courage.
A Swansea visit to Twickenham would once have been a highlight of Harlequins' season but an almost-empty HQ will be an eerie sort of place this afternoon and we may rest assured that the Quins players already have their attention on next Saturday's First Division visit to Bedford.
He picked up a groin injury during his heroic performance in Lions colours in France and, with exhaustion probably exacerbating his condition, he makes way for David Thresher in the second row.
Brian Moore, the Lions hooker, makes his first appearance of the season -having rested since the tour of Australia — for Nottingham at Northampton.
Moore's England props, Paul Rendall and Jeff Probyn, belatedly return for Wasps, at home to Blackheath, after being left out of the first two First Division games.
Ian Williams (Australia) and David Kirk (New Zealand) have gone, but the freshmen who face University College Cork include two US internationals, Gary Hein and Don James, Toshiyoki Hayashi of Japan, and two South Africans, David Curtis and Willem de Klerk.
Boro's captain Tony Mowbray has a foot injury, so Coleman, a £400,000 buy from Mansfield, starts for the first time.
Left-back Chapman, who has missed three matches with a twisted ankle, is in Brighton's squad, and Curbishley makes his 400th League appearance.
Oldham v Barnsley Dobbin, the Barnsley midfielder carried off at Blackpool in midweek, has made a good recovery from a knee injury and may play.
Oxford v Portsmouth The home side have dropped Greenall, so Evans, a New Zealand international and Oxford University student, will partner Slatter in central defence.
The Burslem side await fitness reports on Glover, Porter, Jeffers and their captain, Earle, though forward Cross is ready to return.
Sunderland v Bournemouth Sunderland will be unchanged if Gates (toe injury) and MacPhail (stomach upset) pass fitness tests.
Injury-hit Albion — 12 players unavailable — hope to have winger Ford back and include Barham, the former Norwich and England player who is on trial at the Hawthorns, much-travelled reserve-team coach Allardyce, plus teenagers Foster and Whitehouse.
West Ham v Leeds West Ham, who give fitness tests to Parkes, Gale and Ward, have added Strodder and restored cup-tied newcomer Foster to their 16.
Wolves v Sheffield Utd Bull and Mutch are reunited up front for Wolves, the former having recovered from concussion sustained in scoring against Villa, when Mutch was absent with a groin strain.
Bristol Rovers (second in the Third) make their first change this season against Fulham (fourth) because of Alexander's suspension, with striker Sealy set to face one of his old clubs…
Cardiff's goalkeeper Wood has broken two bones in his right hand, so Ward, who began the season with Droylsden, deputises at Huddersfield…
Fourth Division leaders Southend may face Scarborough without Bennett, who broke his nose in a two-goal display against Tottenham.
As a gentleman of sincerity Ally MacLeod, now enjoying his third spell as manager of Ayr United, has few equals in the world of football.
MacLeod has toughened up the side during a close season which saw the club turn full-time following a flirtation with relegation last year.
One of the former Scotland manager's old teams, Airdrie, visit Somerset Park today — on a day when the Premier Division clubs have no matches as Scotland play on Wednesday — lying third in the First Division and keen to maintain form which has helped them overcome an uncertain beginning.
as if to celebrate the move into their brand-new all-seater stadium, St Johnstone have advanced to the leadership of the division.
Astutely managed by Alex Totten, the former Rangers coach, the Perth men have their recent signings from Dundee United and Hearts, Harry Curran and Allan Moore, looking to increase an already impressive striking rate against Morton at McDiarmid Park this afternoon.
The Jags have unearthed a highly unusual talent in Chic Charnley, a forward with a feel for the unexpected, but he will face a physical examination against Falkirk, who have already had three players sent off in one match this season.
Cricket: England to enjoy a one-day stand in India: Martin Johnson finds grounds for confidence as England's touring party leave for the limited-over thrash on the sub-continent
THE FIRST of England's three winter tour parties leaves Heathrow this afternoon, bound for Delhi and a six-nation one-day jamboree described as the Nehru Trophy.
As (on the evidence of last summer at any rate) there is no one to match them in the art of swishing across the line and bowling not to take wickets, England are probably favourites to win it.
In terms of preparation for the New Year Test series in the West Indies it is a bit like getting ready for an army assault course by taking the dog for a walk around the block.
However, with 12 of the 14-man squad destined for the Caribbean, it does offer the opportunity of forging (under the new triumvirate of Graham Gooch, Allan Lamb and Micky Stewart) the kind of unity that will be essential when the flak is flying at the Queen's Park Oval and Sabina Park.
The winners, for example, will collect only around £5,000 less than the £30,000 total prize money that was on offer for the sub-continent's 1987 World Cup, which is doubtless why Australia and the West Indies were eventually persuaded to join the party after originally blowing it a loud raspberry.
As is the case with most tournaments of this kind, there has to be a peg to hang it on, and this one is to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the birth of Jawaharlal Nehru.
It could just as well have been the 20th birthday of the Eden Gardens tea urn, and as far as the Indian government is concerned, there is nothing like an international cricket tournament for persuading the electorate that, with polling day just around the corner, Rajiv is the boy to vote for.
The proliferation of one-day cricket — there were 227 limited-over internationals played between the last two World Cups — is a reflection of modern-day audience demand, and, overseas anyway, is what brings in the cash.
Even in a country like India, Test cricket no longer generates massive appeal, and on the last full tour there — by the West Indies — a 12-match international programme was split 8-4 in favour of the instant thrill.
It is, of course, mere coincidence that Gooch's passage to India is considerably smoother for World Cups and Nehru Trophies than for a full England Test tour.
Heaven forbid, but the urge to shoehorn into the calendar as much of it as possible continues unabated, leading at times to brain-numbing events such as the three-match Pakistan versus England knockabout immediately after the World Cup — which was a bit like lighting the cigar after a five-course a la carte dinner, then having the waiter arrive with a tureen of porridge.
As for the Nehru, England's first match is on 15 October, while India and Pakistan do not get under way until the 22nd.
The reason for this is that the sub-continent's representatives will still be competing for a one-day pot in Sharjah until the 20th.
However, while returning home with the Cup might not quite be an occasion for breaking out the ticker tape and launching into an orgy of street parties, it would be nice to see England do well, and there is no reason why they should not.
They might have mislaid the formula for operating over five days — December 1986 is the last time England beat anyone of any consequence when asked to bat and bowl for longer than 55 overs — but there is no getting away from their ability to play the negative stuff as well as anyone else.
They will go, for example, into their final qualifying match against the West Indies in Gwalior on 27 October with the record of having beaten them in nine of their previous 10 one-day meetings.
With the usual premium on daylight, which in the sub-continent disappears like a power cut, there will not be much of a gap between the breakfast gong and pavilion bell, and heavy over-rate fines have been written into the regulations.
West Indies have answered speculation about Viv Richards's health by naming him captain for the Champions' Trophy tournament in Sharjah and the Nehru tournament in India.
IT IS apt that much of this German Masters course is set amid fruit trees, because the tournament leader Nick Faldo was talking cherries yesterday.
After harvesting six strokes in the second round with a 66 to be nine under for the tournament, Faldo digressed on US Tour players coming over to find pickings in European Tour events — particularly pertinent as his nearest challenger is the American, Payne Stewart.
The US Masters champion said: ‘To be the best in the world you've got to play around the world, but I don't expect to see Americans playing over here.
And Deane Beman (the US Tour commissioner) doesn't want us to cherry-pick on their tour.’
This was a topical point as Faldo is currently ‘up in the air’ on whether he will play in the American Nabisco Grand Prix or the last European event, the Volvo Masters.
Faldo will want to defend his Volvo Masters title if he wins here because he could then still clinch the European Order of Merit.
However, the Nabisco first prize is £280,000, whereas the Volvo top purse is only £66,000, although that could be doubled if he is also the order of merit winner.
Stewart's 67 left him a stroke ahead of his playing partner Rodger Davies and two in front of the overnight leader, Bernhard Langer.
The defending champion Jose-Maria Olazabal, five places above Faldo in the order of merit, ended with an eagle to be a shot behind Langer.
Seve Ballesteros followed up yesterday's quadruple-bogey seven by plummeting out of bounds at the par-three 15th and out of the tournament with two 75s, six over par.
JAHANGIR KHAN'S attempt to extend his record of world titles to seven ended in exhaustion, annoyance and a surprise semi-final defeat in the World Open here yesterday.
His conqueror, by 15-9, 12-15, 15-9, 8-15, 15-13 was Australia's Chris Dittmar and his tiredness was also partly caused by the extra pounds of weight that have been expanding around his middle in recent months.
Jahangir's irritation was with the refereeing which, he reckoned, had hindered him throughout the tournament and yesterday he said it ‘made it hard for me to catch up a couple of points’.
It was the red-haired left-hander's first win over the squash legend, the first time he had played a match lasting an hour and 50 minutes at this level and won, and the first time he can ever have gambled so audaciously as he did at 13-13 in the final game.
But instead the ball whipped unplayablly along the floor and in another moment the man from Adelaide was celebrating with a grim, pale smile one of the biggest upsets of recent years.
Jahangir's defeat will increase speculation that the man who once went more than 500 matches unbeaten, may sometime next year retire.
Well before the end his shirt was hanging like cling-film, his hair separating into rats' tails, and his body movements winding down.
Dittmar's wife, Lyan, was in tears at the end, but the Australian was mostly impervious to emotion, already concentrating, as he said, on today's final against the other great Pakistani Khan, Jansher, the 1987 world champion.
LAURENT FIGNON, the double Tour de France winner, failed a dope test after a race in The Netherlands last month, the president of the French Cycling Federation, Francois Alaphilippe, confirmed last night.
Fignon, who won the Tour de France in 1983 and 1984, and finished just eight seconds behind Greg Lemond this year, failed the test after his team, Super U, placed second in the Grand Prix de la Liberation in Eindhoven on 17 September.
Fignon said in a statement that he had asked for a second test at a different laboratory but his request had been turned down.
The Frenchman, who protested his innocence when he failed a drug test after winning the Tour of Wallonia in 1987, is one of a number of leading riders to have failed a test, including Pedro Delgado, the Spaniard who was allowed to complete and win the Tour de France last year after a test revealed a substance banned by the International Olympic Committee but not by the International Cycling Union.
BOBBY ROBSON tried his best to be diplomatic, but his face is too expressive to play that game, and the fight to conceal his true feelings was well and truly lost.
The England manager was surprised and disappointed by Liverpool's decision to withdraw John Barnes from Wednesday's decisive World Cup qualifier in Poland — and it showed.
Barnes has been suffering from a hamstring strain, but he was able to train on Thursday and yesterday, and Robson had expected him to be fit for Chorzow, where a point will be enough to take England to Italy as winners of Group Two.
He was confident that Barnes would have trained without discomfort before being dispatched to join the squad at their Buckinghamshire headquarters.
Kenny told me he trained this morning, but was still feeling the injury, and that there was no point in him coming.
‘We have got another 48 hours before we leave and John could have had treatment here, but Liverpool are ruling him out.
It is very unfortunate because we want all our best players for such an important match, but I am not going to embroider it.
The implication was that when it came to embroidery, the stitching up had been done on Merseyside, if Barnes had been fit enough to train for the last two days.
Robson decided against summoning a replacement, explaining: ‘With Chris Waddle, David Rocastle and Steve Hodge here, we have the best players of Barnes's type with us already.’
The two wingers were, in the manager's words, ‘brilliant against Poland at Wembley’, but tactical considerations had already precluded their selection in tandem next week.
Robson is anxious not to fall into the trap which ensnared Alf Ramsey in 1973, when England sought a draw in Poland with a team packed with defenders and lost 2-0, but sensible precautions will be taken.
Until yesterday, these would have seen Barnes deployed on one flank with Rocastle's defensive awareness earning him a ninth cap at Waddle's expense on the other.
When he got on as a substitute against Sweden he was first class; in Albania he was one of our best players.’
Steve McMahon, who is to deputise in midfield for the injured Neil Webb, missed England's workout at Bisham Abbey yesterday along with Gary Stevens, Tony Adams, Paul Gascoigne and Gary Lineker, but their injuries are slight.
Paul Ince of Manchester United has pulled out of the England Under-21 squad for Tuesday's European Championship match in Poland with an ankle injury.
Paul McStay and Jim Bett, who have been doubtful with injuries, yesterday reported fit for Scotland's World Cup qualifying match against France on Wednesday.
England...... 5 Argentina.... 0 SEAN KERLY scored three times in England's workmanlike victory in their opening game in the Lada Classic at Kenilworth Road, Luton, last night against Argentina.
Nick Thompson, with his first goal for England in the 17th minute after a good move down the right by Steve Batchelor, started England off.
Kerly, exchanging with his captain Richard Leman, slotted in No. 4 in the 48th minute and completed his hat-trick in the last minute after Thompson had set him up.
MICHAEL KNIGHTON will this weekend contact Manchester United's chairman Martin Edwards to seek a way out of the financial and legal impasse caused by his £20m bid for the club.
Knighton is ready to offer the Manchester United boss a new deal on the 50.6 per cent shareholding which he sought to buy from Edwards for £10m, and which is now the subject of a damaging legal wrangle in the High Court.
It is likely that the outcome of the talks, after a suitable period to allow the club to recover, will be a new takeover bid for the club, made by the Lebanese-born businessman and United director, Amer Midani.
Midani, said to be a member of one of the richest families in the world, would install one of United's favourite sons, Bobby Charlton, as chairman.
Speaking from the offices of his Manchester travel business yesterday, Charlton would only comment: ‘There is a legal case pending, and it is a very, very dicey situation.
Until all that has died down, I will only say that the only thing I'm bothered about is the well-being of the club.
Knighton declined to comment ahead of the talks with Edwards, but it seems he is keen at all costs to avoid a court case.
The appointment of Charlton would be seen in Manchester as the perfect solution to the damaging public wrangling that has made the club a public farce over recent weeks.
Apart from his family riches, Midani is a wealthy man in his own right, with interests in property and leisure developments in the United Kingdom and Spain.
A financier in the Manchester broking community said yesterday: ‘It is more than a possibility that he will make an offer to get Knighton out of his hole.’
It has been suggested that the club would pay Knighton £1m as compensation, which would then be added to the price-tag Midani would put on the Edwards stake.
The going rate for Edwards's 50 per cent has risen rapidly since the affair began in August with Knighton's £10m offer.
Midani would be able to afford at least that, and a general offer would be cheaper for him to fund because of his existing stake.
Robert Maxwell, the Daily Mirror publisher who once offered to buy Edwards's shares, was rumoured yesterday to be still interested, but his family's interest in other football League clubs — Derby and Oxford — would face problems from the Football League's limitations on club ownership.
These were underlined yesterday by the League's decision to bar Owen Oyston, the radio station owner who has said he would be willing to back Knighton's offer, from an interest in United.
A League statement later spelt out that ‘League Regulation 86 quite unequivocally prohibits an individual, a member of his family or any other associate including a nominee from holding more than 10 per cent of the shares in more than one League club’.
The statement also expressed ‘grave concern about the recent uncertainty’ surrounding Manchester United and Blackpool and hoped the matters would be ‘brought to an early conclusion’.
There is also speculation as to why Edwards initially accepted an offer of £10m, which subsequently turned out to be way below the market price.
(First Edition) MANCHESTER police will be at full stretch for the next round of the Littlewoods Cup — because of the demands of television.
The two Manchester clubs have been drawn at home and the police originally wanted one to play on Tuesday, 24 October, and the other 24 hours later.
However, City have a live televised match against Aston Villa at Maine Road on Sunday, 22 October, and they were unhappy about playing two games in three days.
They are likely to develop the Trent End and/or the Bridgford Road End, the only uncovered part of the ground.
Maurice Roworth, the Forest chairman, said: ‘We have a duty to our supporters and the team to provide a ground worthy of the success the club has had.
Work would already have started on improving what we already believe to be one of the country's most modern and safe grounds.
‘But we cannot do anything until we know what will be expected of football clubs in the future in terms of all-seater grounds or any other issues.
Until we get the full implications of the Taylor Report and discover what happens over the identity-card issue, we will have to sit tight.
But feasibility studies have been carried out and we should be in a position to act when we know what is expected.’
Ron Atkinson, the Sheffield Wednesday manager, yesterday promised the shareholders' AGM that the team will not be relegated and will climb from the bottom of the First Division by Christmas.
The Welsh FA have signed a sponsorship deal with Welsh Brewers Ltd which could net them more than £100,000 over the next three years.
WELSH RUGBY was united for the first time in the last few stormy months when the 203 member clubs of the Welsh Rugby Union decided to sever playing links with South Africa last night.
In becoming the first country to shun the Springboks, the Welsh not only turned about face from their decision of five years ago, but also brought the advent of a professional rugby circus in the Republic that bit closer.
At the Union's special general meeting, held at the Civic Hall in Port Talbot, delegates voted 276-113 in favour of a strongly-worded WRU motion proposing a complete cut-off of playing links with South Africa.
We gave the whole matter a fair airing on everything involved in South Africa and that's why the result is as such.
It's all right to build bridges with South Africa, but if bridges are falling down in Wales something must be done about it.’
Although Rowlands, who resigned his presidency for seven days in the bloody aftermath of this summer's centenary tour to South Africa, was happy to lay the issue to rest last night, the debris of the affair is still apparent throughout Welsh rugby.
The secretary, David East, is now a figure of the distant past following his decision to resign his post over the way 10 Welsh players were recruited for the celebratory tour, and the Union still have to find a candidate to replace Rhys Williams as the junior vice-president.
The vote will be seen as a victory for the local authorities, who put so much pressure on the clubs, and many of the delegates were relieved that the vote had taken away the threat of possible punitive action from their local councils.
‘It takes all the pressure off us and we can now start to play rugby again,’ a representative from Ebbw Vale, whose ground is owned by the local authority, said.
What the repercussions will be in South Africa — where the ageing president, Danie Craven, has threatened to support rebel tours — only time will tell.
Craven has said that Welsh players will still be chased by South Africa in spite of this vote, but the WRU is confident that they have shut off the avenue to the Republic.
Last night's resolution from the WRU committee read: ‘For as long as any rugby player living in the Republic of South Africa is the victim of racial discrimination under the laws of that country, neither the WRU nor any of its member clubs will become involved in any matches organised under the authority of the SA Rugby Board.
JOHN WHITAKER scooped his sponsor's pool at the Horse of the Year Show for the second time running on the spring-heeled Next Milton, when winning last night's Next International Masters, writes Genevieve Murphy.
Nick Skelton, on Burmah Serenade, and Germany's Franke Sloothaak, on Walzerkoenig, could have taken the prize, for the rider clearing the highest course, but each made one error.
Whitaker's partner slipped while turning tight into the penultimate fence, but the horse managed to jump clear and win from Emma-Jane Mac on Everest Oyster.
TOWARDS the end of a week of stocktaking at the Stuttgart Classic, in which some of the world's leading male players have expressed mixed feelings about the way professional tennis is moving into the next decade, Boris Becker was asked to name his player of the 1980s.
Bjorn Borg vacated the courts long ago, and though the 37-year-old Jimmy Connors will continue to swing his racket with gusto when the new Association of Tennis Professionals Tour gets underway in January, Lendl, Wilander and McEnroe remain to test the 21-year-old Becker as he endeavours to convince the rankings computer that he is the top man.
Lendl, the current No. 1 and the winner of more than $14m in official prize-money, guaranteed himself another $60,000 at least last night by defeating Argentina's Alberto Mancini, 6-2, 6-3, to reach the final of this exhibition event.
He has surprised Becker by announcing that he will forgo the French Open next June in order to prepare for Wimbledon, the one major championship to have eluded him.
Lendl smiled and countered: ‘It would be laughable if I didn't say it because it's obvious that Wimbledon is my main goal — to pretend otherwise would be wrong.’
In today's final he plays Miloslav Mecir a 6-3, 6-4 winner against Stuttgart's Carl Uwe Steeb.
Becker, who expects to encounter the 25-year-old Swede in the Davis Cup final here in December, cannot understand why he has drifted so long.
One hand dropped to her groin but she didn't move; she seemed to be trying to puzzle out who the caller might be.
Sarah collected some mugs from a cupboard and set them down close to the coffee maker; she looked impatiently at the level of coffee in the jug, as if the  slowness of the process was a familiar annoyance.
North was slicing bread to make toast, the mechanics of their everyday life going on round Dawson as he stood there.
He felt strangely inactive, as if he ought to offer to help in some way; pour glasses of juice perhaps.
North dropped the bread into the toaster, noticed that it didn't operate when he pressed the lever and looked round vaguely for the reason.
Through the living-room door, Culley could see a child asleep on a couch, an embroidered shawl covering all but one pale cheek and a cloud of blond hair.
He sat down on a small bedside chair, leaving Culley and Dawson no other option than to sit on the bed, which they did, side by side, like travellers on a train.
He had a beard that had got slightly out of hand, growing a little longer on one side: he twisted  the hairs into tiny Bluebeard curls; there was something in his face — a certain quality — that seemed ingrained, weathered in.
‘Well, I moved out, came to live here in a rented house I can't really afford, Susan sold the flat, which seemed a bit more than a symbolic act, I continued to love her and miss her, I tried to understand what she felt and hoped it was something she'd eventually work through so that we could be together again.
Eventually, Reid said, ‘All Susan ever said about her father was that he was a grade-A shit who'd ignored her for most of her life and thought money was a good substitute for love.
When they returned to the hallway, the child was standing by the living-room door, looking as if she might be about to cry.
Culley opened the front door, then paused to look back at Reid, who turned, seeming to be taking the child protectively out of Culley's vision rather than offering a goodbye.
‘Wouldn't have helped him much,’ Dawson said, ‘but it might have put me in a more relaxed frame of mind.’
He saw the tatty rooms, the junk-shop furniture…hoped it was something she'd eventually work through, so that we could be together again .
He looked after the child, Daisy, they live in this crappy house with matchwood furniture, he works at some hamburger place, and waited for Susan Court to come home.
Not weak,’ Culley half-raised a hand as if Helen might have been about to challenge his judgement in this.
‘Not weak, but not bluffing either — not pretending he'd never really wanted her, hated her, was better on his own.
I mean, he looked as if he would cope without having to pretend that everything was fine.’
‘Because my most enduring memory of you is late nights, or very early mornings, smelling of bars and gutters, still high from whatever dangerous moment you'd recently enjoyed.
Workers’ Revolutionary Party, helped run a hand-out sheet called Arise ; that sort of thing.’
The supplier had a number of names and no-one who dealt with him knew, or cared to know, which was the real one.
The customer called him Francis: a first name, a last name, a man's, a woman's; it allowed the kind of vagueness the supplier liked.
Francis knew that; in fact, he knew a good deal about Warner, though he avoided using the name, as if anxious to extend his own reticence to others.
Things didn't quite go to plan — which has proved annoying for you, and you're now asking for a second service; for which you'll pay me.’
As Francis approached, there came a noise to accompany the smell — solid bodies thumping against the tin walls, then a cacophony of squeals and snorts.
Inside the hut, a lumbering saddleback boar was trotting along the aisle between two rows of pens, nosing the bars and grunting rhythmically.
Then, without waiting for an answer, turned his attention back to the boar, which had begun to slam its shoulder into one of the pens.
He got alongside the creature to open a gate on the backmost pen, cracked a toecap into the fat flank, and heaved the gate closed as the boar ran in.
The man leaned on the topmost rung of the pig-pen, making it clear that Francis would have to approach.
‘A bit of freelance, though, a couple of times before Eric went pro; a couple of times after.’
Martin Jackson watched the mating for a short while, the boar's bulk shoving, the sow bearing him, as if he were seeing that savage, ludicrous event for the first time.
He cut the engine and got out, slamming the door but not bothering to lock it, then began to walk swiftly downhill.
They had completed their training, done their time, including a tour in Germany, left the Army and nothing had happened.
When he thought back to those years in  the Army, and the year immediately afterwards, it seemed to Jackson that he and Ross had scarcely been out of one another 's company.
He never visited the local pub; he shopped at an anonymous supermarket in the county town; he kept his house startlingly neat, but never invited anyone there.
Twice a week, he shot on the range of a gun club in a nearby town — turned up, shot, left.
If I touched your arm, if we smiled at one another, if we talked about that day and the rainstorm and the shock of the butts recoiling against our cheeks and Halliday dead on the moor.
He reached the base of the tor and stood alongside it his smaller silhouette looking, from a distance, like an outcrop of the rock.
Culley had never heard Susan Court speak, but it was clear from what was being said that the voice was hers.
Obviously he'd been doing some kind of a finance deal; setting up a takeover; and he'd lifted some off the top for himself.’
Of course, the contacts he's made the circles he moves in — would make it possible to fund his own operation.’
The American had used Father to set the financial wheels turning for the takeover; employed him, you might say; and he'd suggested the inside trade and how it might be made.’
‘Yes, by coming up with the idea for the arms deal and effectively trebling the amount Father would make in the process.
Not just that the money came from insider dealing, but the weapons weren't coming from any official supplier or going to one of the usual customers.’
She hated what her father did and made it her business to spy on him anyway; a daughter's revenge on a father who disappointed her.
‘I don't recall any press coverage of James Court's share dealings; I don't recall any banner headlines about arms for Sinn Fein for that matter.’
‘I'd've thought that Arise would have made something of a meal of all that — top financier in shares scandal; weapons mogul arms IRA; that sort of thing.’
Or I can charge you — withholding information, conspiracy, being an accomplice, possession of heroin, indecent exposure: anything that comes to mind, really.’
Before he could speak, Culley continued, ‘On the other hand, I could take that beer can, ram it up your ass and kick it out through your teeth.
I knew when to put the tape on, I could start it while she was in the bathroom, she didn't wander off while it was recording, and the machine could be underneath and out of sight.’
‘I thought it would be useful to lay hands on the original tape — the conversation between Court and the American.’
If Culley had been asked to guess a description of James Court's house, he would have been almost right.
Business friends, golfing partners, members of your fucking club, whoever's on the board of your companies, anyone you've made a phone call to, or had a confidential chat with, anyone who's asked for help, or given it.
‘If you were going to use this,’ Court observed, ‘we'd be having a different sort of conversation.’
He pulled the knot on the belt, then re-tied it, tighter, as if the gesture afforded him some feeling of protection.
What was he if not the creature who circled that dark silhouette, sometimes letting a wing-tip brush the brickwork, sometimes soaring on an up-draught, better to look down, better to choose, better to fall on the prey?
He had arrived at this place, this vantage point on the hill, in order to become anyone, not knowing who; not knowing what.
He was imagining them as they scurried to and fro like rats, like rabbits, when farmers burnt the stubble off their fields.
He saw the daft circles they made as a wind lifted the flames and turned them; he saw their hysterical galloping back and forth, and saw the cherry-red line crackling across the stumps of corn, towing its apron of smoke.
And over the field, his vast, dark presence; shadow of a bird, shadow of a man; his laser eye, wings to soar, wings for the whiplash drop; a speck in the sun, or a broad, black, noiseless shape skimming  the flame-top, watching the little creatures go to and fro.
It took no time at all; ten seconds to have it ready, scope in place, the stock up to his shoulder.
A couple went by on bicycles, less hindered than usual because the roads weren't busy, the woman riding with one hand resting on the man's shoulder.
Three girls came into the line of fire, each wearing a student nurse's uniform, walking quickly, but gossiping as they went, and laughing, their heads constantly turning to whichever of them took up the conversation.
He lowered the gun and got control of himself, then raised it again, but the laughter returned: a grimace, a flutter, and then a great stream of bubbles inside, floating up, jouncing his chest, until tears blurred the figures in the scope.
He dropped the gun from his shoulder again, and bent over as the laughter wracked him, all the more powerful for being silent, for being trapped inside.
He braced the top of his head against a section of partly-demolished brickwork, and heaved with laughter, his face slick with tears, his limbs weak with the effort.
It's like a scene from a play, Culley thought, and in each performance a different extra takes the victim's part.
They'd all got off the bus together; this one had gone into a truckers’ cafe for cigarettes and a carton of coffee.
A crane with a sledge-block attached stood in the centre; outside its scope, there were single walls, doors that opened on to nothing, ragged billboards.
I'm not hoping for a shell-casing, you know, but if he'd just get a fucking nose-bleed or something, I'd be a happy man.’
He looked out at the street, past the blur of headlights, and saw people going back and forth, moving swiftly and apprehensively, sometimes casting glances towards the hiding place.
The hairs lifted slightly on the nape of his neck and a rush of tingling spread on his scalp, then flooded his face so that he blushed in the darkness.
He turned to reach the two glasses of wine that stood on a bedside table; he'd brought them with him from the dinner table.
She tossed the blouse on to a chair, took the glass Culley was offering, sipped, set it down, then unzipped her skirt and let it drop.
Culley took the glass from her and bit, gently, just under her breast, on the flat of her stomach, on the crease of her hip.
You could hear the chug of lawnmowers; hoses snaked out to cars parked at the roadside; bonfire smoke snagged in the branches of fruit trees.
She lifted a hand to shade her eyes and Martin Jackson's face appeared on the backdrop of light, as if he were looking at her from the sun's centre.
He said, ‘Angie…’ and she stood aside to let him in, lost for words, then followed him to the kitchen, as if he were showing her the way.
He knew he'd convince her; he was offering all the best ingredients of a successful untruth — it was possible without being obvious, surprising without being mysterious.
I mean, it was clear that he wanted to talk, but we didn't really get down to what was bothering him.
There were things the men never spoke of to Angie; and she had known instinctively that Eric's job was something she and he would never openly discuss.
‘That he's running round London killing people and doesn't seem to want to stop.’
Angie made a tiny, delicate gesture, her hand moving upwards and outwards, as if she might gather his words from the air and muffle them.
There was a small desk, a lined pad, a tea mug holding a pencil and two pens, a stack of train and airline schedules, and a few pieces of personal clutter that could have been in any room in the house.
On a shelf was a pebble that had been polished by running water; it was ovoid, a piece of granite about big enough to hold in a clenched fist; a seam of quartz halved it on the diagonal.
Jackson put the phone down, swung round on to the bed and drew his feet up until he was sitting cross-legged.
Lying beside it was a sheet of coloured adhesive markers and a handwritten list that noted the location of each of Ross's killings.
This showed him nothing except that Ross had been skilful in the way he had chosen to combine places with times.
He ran his eye down the list, looking at the column in which he'd noted the time of day for each killing.
When you get to the spot you've picked — while you wait — you might notice the lick of pulse in your wrist is a little faster, a little harder.
You might have time to savour the moment, while you watch him approach, while you pick your shot; but then it's all movement, whatever route you've chosen, whatever method for getting clear.
The fizz, the pulse-beat, the moment slightly delayed…yes, that was good, but it's all part of the job.
He let his fingers drift across the paper like a dowser; as if , somehow, among the fractured patterns on the page, he might suddenly feel the heat of Ross's madness.
Television specials were mounted in which psychiatrists offered theories that meant, ‘We know certain things that underline how little we know.’
Apart from that, there's nothing we can tell you to make you safe.’
It was just past dawn and she believed she hadn't slept: not that night, nor the previous night, nor the night before that.
The truth was that she would doze now and then — ten minutes here, twenty there; but her dreams were so vivid and so close to her conscious fears that she might as well have been awake.
It's like being in a house where you used to live, but you can't quite remember its danger points.
It was all motion, always moving…so I suppose that must mean I didn't stop; not really.
The furniture was almost all antique of the period, though on one wall, at a corridor's end, a Louis-Quinze tapestry hung above an eighteenth-century pew.
The paintings were usually English or French, some oils, but watercolours for the most part— country scenes, portraits, and one strange canvas of a lady dressed in a ball gown holding a dead hare by the hind legs.
She was young-old: a brittle blonde whose face had probably been beautiful but now sagged just a bit, was creased just a bit , and had grown a lip of wattle behind the chin.
She was angry, for sure, but a closer look would have revealed a  heaviness in the mouth, a darkness under her eyes: the face of someone who had cried a good deal recently, and had some crying yet to do.
Nicola spoke over her shoulder —‘I'm a prisoner in my own goddamn home’— her voice made uneven by emotion.
She opened a door into a large, sunny drawing room, crossed its breadth, sat on a sofa, got up immediately to look for a cigarette, found a pack on a low table by the window, then sat down on a chair.
‘By night, it's that fat idiot taking the night-shift, Goldman, sitting on a chair in the hallway with his flask  of coffee and a plastic tub of sandwiches.
I understand your need for’— he hesitated, finding a way round the word ‘revenge’—‘well, to have things straight.
It wasn't necessary for him to throw the game in order to please  the other man — his particular business was a seller's market.
He'd been feeling good that day: finding the sweet-spot time after time, the ball coming off the racquet head with no sense of effort.
The game had stood at thirty-love when he tossed the ball up to serve and the man at the back of the opposite court had watched him hop and stumble, then fall, the racquet leaving his hand on the upswing and curving away.
His legs had buckled and knocked, a comic effect, and he'd gone down too soon for his partner to see the ugly roundel that had begun to form on the white tennis shirt.
It wasn't as if Jay might storm into banks with a shot-gun, or ram a wages van.
Nicola and Jay were a rare example of people who had met in their early twenties, fallen in love, married, stayed in love, stayed happy.
Not so much the man who had killed him, though it would  have pleased her to know that man was dead.
And someone would be able to find them; someone would be able to take Jay's name as a starting point and make a journey that would lead to those other names.
She would make it up as she went along — like a story told to a child at bedtime; like a clever lie that relies as much on the truth as on deception.
She pushed on the door as if for support, turning towards him and settling into her seat again as if that had always been her intention.
In the front seats of the car next to them, two men were talking business, the driver taking his hands from the wheel now and then to amplify whatever point he was making.
She turned from Schmidt and said, ‘My husband…’ then immediately turned back, as if unaware of the other car, making it seem that her remark had always been intended for Schmidt.
He said, ‘We didn't see a great deal of one another, it's true; but I was fond of Jay.’
For the rest of the drive, she chatted about Jay, about how they had met, the things they had done together.
It seemed to Schmidt that even though the recollections made her sad, talking about them at all was the beginning of a means to recovery.
Schmidt tapped on the glass and the chauffeur ran the nearside wheels on to a broad stretch of grass fifty feet from the fringe of a beechwood.
Three times she went one side of a tree when Schmidt went the other, emerging again without breaking her conversation.
Halfway round the walk, they came to a chalk escarpment that sloped away from a ridge, falling about thirty feet to a small clearing.
Suddenly she was gone, off balance and tilting down the slope, running with windmill arms, sliding, running again, a plume of white chalk-dust under her heels.
She examined her hands, white with chalk, as if looking for the source of some small pain, then gave up on that and began to dust herself down.
Nicola took a run at the slope and gained a third of it before dropping nearly to all fours to grab at little ridges and tufts of grass.
She stood up, drawing him with her, and for a moment he was upright, his feet on the slope, his head just above the rim.
His body leaped like a salmon, airborne, as he turned and crashed down again, then rolled off the scarp and on to the clearing.
When she opened her mouth to yell, a hand caught her face, pinching into the angle of the jaw so hard that the cry died in her throat.
The man's tongue came back  to his lip and he made a series of little whispered sounds,huss ,huss ,huss ; his laugh.
He slapped her, swiftly and casually, his hand coming back to cover her mouth in case she might cry out.
But when the moment came, when he heard her, talking in a fear-ridden whisper, it wrenched at him.
In the hallway, close to the door that led to the family's rooms, was a small, wall-mounted console.
He went to it and opened the hinged flap to reveal a series of numbered buttons, nought to ten, like a telephone dial unit.
You'll get a phone call to say that unless you follow instructions your wife and children will be killed.
Fly to Brittany, take the boat down to Nice, go up and down the coast, then the Adriatic or other parts of the Med.
You won't have to act; you won't have to worry about the expression on your face when the squad car turns up.’
They came past him at a run, three of them, two heading straight for the room that Pope had indicated on the floor plan.
There was a booming sound in his skull that came in waves, and his vision was going at the edges, like burning paper dwindling and darkening.
The man standing behind her grasped her left wrist and tucked the arm up behind her back; his other hand went into her hair, drawing her backwards.
The man had enjoyed a blip of peyote earlier in the day, and there was a mild, dreamy look on his face, a look of effortless tolerance; but his hand was steady.
She let the champagne touch her mouth, then opened it slightly so that the clean coldness flushed the fatness of her lower lip and spilled from her teeth to her tongue.
What he was saying could as easily have been a lecture delivered to a silent class: the starchy language, the self-satisfied delivery.
You find a place to dive from, because diving is something you do particularly well — a ledge on a cliff, a boat pier.
People strolled past without giving him a second look — couples hand in hand, families with pushchairs, groups of friends looking for a good spot to picnic.
Animals would have known, would have caught his scent, or have seen him suddenly among them, and they'd have turned and fled as a herd will turn from a predator.
He found a place in sight of one of the park's two lakes where a small plantation of young trees had been fenced off for protection.
A man on horseback was circling the water, the reins slack in his hands to let his mount go at an idle walk.
Ross assembled the gun and found the rider again, swinging the cross-hairs past the Frisbee players, a man with a child on his shoulders, a woman throwing a stick into the water for her dog to chase and fetch.
For a moment, he took the scope back to the child perched like an Aunt Sally, then again to the horseman, who was coming directly towards the gun.
The woman threw her stick and the dog raced past to the water, going almost under the forelegs of the horse.
The horse screamed as the bullet scored its neck, and it seemed to leap with its hindlegs, making the rear a mighty buck that shipped the rider off and into the shallows of the lake.
The rider had managed to keep a hold on one rein and the horse was masking him — hopping and kicking out in an effort to break free.
Ross knew he had already waited too long, but he continued to look through the scope, hoping for a clean shot at his chosen mark.
The man refused to come clear; he stood on the far side of the horse, soothing the animal and examining the fresh wound on its neck.
Ross actually said the words out loud, even as he took the cross-hairs to and fro over the scene by the lakeside.
He broke the gun down and stowed it in the rucksack, slipped the spent cartridge case into his pocket, then jumped back over the fence.
A man was watching him from no more than ten feet away, standing still but looking backwards, as if his attention had been drawn to Ross's sudden appearance.
He asked, ‘What's the problem?’ and in the same moment, struck at the man stiff-armed, a karate blow.
As Ross followed in, the man swung, catching Ross solidly on the side of the face; he was wearing a  ring that opened a deep gash along the cheek-bone.
Ross levered himself up, going against the pain, going fast, making his hand stiff from wrist to fingertip.
His eyes turned up so that only the whites were left and he made an ugly sound deep in his throat, then he went forward, full-face on to the ground.
He had chosen a place close to one of the gates on the western side, always knowing that his time for escape was limited.
He made for a line of scrub between two gates and waited until the street outside was fairly clear, then climbed the railings and dropped down.
A few heads turned towards him — passers-by who didn't yet know what had happened in the park.
He had brown hair, fairly short; he had dark hair worn long; he was dressed in a green jacket with jeans, a beige jacket with black trousers, a T-shirt, a polo shirt, sneakers, deck shoes.
It seemed certain that the dead man in the park had attacked the killer and had left his mark — many people mentioned a cut and a badly bloodstained face.
It was possible, of course, that their man had taken his taxi to a part of London far from the place he was staying in.
Billy Knowle held a chicken and mayonnaise sandwich in his mouth in order to leave both hands free for the report.
He tried to keep it quiet, but there were people in the neighbourhood who were all too eager to be a part of the excitement.
In October 1987 the edginess that had been afflicting stock market dealings in London, New York and Tokyo grew steadily until it was a fully-fledged panic.
The smart money had moved some time earlier, becoming cash or commodities, anything that could survive the flash-fire of a market crash.
Other investors perished; or, at the very least, watched helplessly as their assets, like trees in the path of a firestorm, wilted, singed, then were consumed.
It's reasonable to think that a two million bite from a fortune of several million is a bearable loss.
A number of his friends had been affected in a similar way; one or two had, in their terms, been wiped out — left with a million or less.
It involved an investment cartel in a commodity that always held its value, no matter what might happen in world affairs, no matter what the state of Third World debt, no matter who was at war with whom.
They firmly believed that people should be given rules to abide by to ensure that society ran on an even basis; they didn't believe that the rules applied to them.
When he hinted that some of their dealings might be — well —confidential , no-one at the meeting asked questions.
One of Warner's principal opponents was a dealer called Jay Hammond; not least because Hammond was also happy to deal on the wrong side of the law.
There were times, too, when Warner was obliged to involve himself with people he'd sooner not have known.
‘He could still be there simply not answering the door, or in a place they haven't checked as yet.’
Closer to his eye was a reflection of the kitchen, which seemed to hover in the darkness, a silent capsule, a moment from a time warp.
He wanted to go back and find that man, the horse-rider, the man he'd chosen to die.
She fetched antiseptic and some cotton wool, then bent towards him and dabbed at the place, a pose that brought their heads close together.
He thought of his vantage-point and the view through the scope; he thought of the way the cross-hairs quartered the scene, seeming to draw a victim on to the crux, dead-centre.
He gathered her under the hips as if he were lifting laundry, before she was ready, spending no time on her at all.
In the light from the partly-opened curtains, she could see his head above hers, his neck stretched, his eyes open and staring at the wall above the bed-head.
She put a hand on his shoulder, to slow him, to make him think, and he  tightened his grip on her haunches, dragging her into the quickening thump of his hips.
He came — she felt the moment in pain and sadness — but he continued to move, banging at her, clutching just that part of her that he needed, as if he'd felt nothing, as if he didn't know when to stop.
Unless she comes to the front door, and follows you down the path; or comes to the back door and follows you into the garden.
I'm sure you're inside by now and I didn't see you, so it must have been over the gardens to the back door.
More gardens to the left, so it would make sense to suppose that you'd come in from the right, leaving your car in the road at the end of the row.
Right now, you're probably making guesses of your own and, listen, I'm not giving you any help with those.
He'll assume that I won't go to the car because he'll be waiting, so I'll go to the left, and that's where he'll be waiting.
He'll decide that I've worked that out — that I'll guess my best bet is to go to the car because he'll reckon I won't go to the car.
First I think that if I go to the car, he'll be waiting, so I won't go to the car.
He waited for three-quarters of an hour, until the mottled grey of false-dawn had given way to a pink-and-pearl flush above the silent rooftops, then left, walking between the rows of drawn curtains and smiling at his wrong choice.
Before Nicola Hammond had gone for her walk with Gunter Schmidt, she had taken all the money in her wallet and lined her bra with it.
She had guessed it would look better — more disarming — not to be carrying a bag; as if she expected to be out only for a short time.
She was living in a bed and breakfast place for thirty-five pounds a night, and paying each day — it wasn't the kind of hotel where you settled the bill as you left.
There were listings for Culley, a florist, Culley, a bookseller, and Culley's, a restaurant; there were seven listings for other Culleys, three of them Culley, R. And there was a listing for Culley, Robin.
She got an answering machine and was pretty certain that she recognized his voice from the times he'd given a television reporter a few words at the scene of crime.
A customer approached him, he arranged the theft, someone else took the risk, someone else again arranged for transport, your husband paid them, of course, but he collected the fee from the buyer.’
Jay had told me a certain amount — about the offers of money if he left the deal clear for someone else.
I think he was frightened that I might unwittingly say too much — that if I knew everything, I'd be more likely to guard my tongue; be part of the conspiracy.’
That way, it would seem like someone gone mad — everyone would be looking at the sniper, no-one would be looking for a motive.
Her look was so intense that Helen half-turned, almost believing that someone had opened it and was standing just inside the room.
It was a full day later before Schmidt had been able to form a coherent sentence, though his words still came in a low, wracked whisper.
Elliott moved the car along the street, staying a few yards back from Goldmam who was twenty feet behind Helen  and Nicola, his pace increasing as the distance narrowed, timing it nicely.
It was Helen who broke the rhythm of things; she delved in her bag, searching for her house keys, and when she didn't find them, stopped to search more carefully.
When Helen paused, he cannoned into her and she turned, offering a startled apology that turned into a cry of alarm as Goldman shoved her to one side.
She turned to run, but Goldman was on her, grabbing her arms, her shoulders, fending off the wild blows that she aimed at his face.
Nicola's voice was coming and going like a tricky radio signal; she could feel a stinging dampness where her calves had dragged over the rough brickwork atop the wall.
The man was still a spectator, walking slowly towards the action, now, but without having made any kind of a decision.
Nicola had stopped trying to hit Goldman; she was wrenching her body sideways each time he grabbed her, turning away from him, away from the car, using her full weight against his and losing the contest moment by moment.
When the man saw this, he began to walk more quickly, then to run, as if triggered by some vulnerability in Nicola that he hadn't found before.
Elliott was half-in, half-out of the car, trying to work out where he would be most use.
Still gripping Nicola's shirt, Goldman pulled her in and punched her, missing her face when she lurched away from the blow, but taking her on the body.
Her feet went; she scrambled and sat down, dragging him with her so that his body stooped in a low bow like some subservient courtier.
Elliott clutched Goldman's shoulders from behind and got him half-way to his feet before Goldman tottered backwards and sat down heavily.
He opened the rear door and folded Goldman on to the seat; his legs trailed into the road and Elliott tucked them up on the seat.
Helen watched him until he rounded the corner, then walked Nicola the ten or so yards along the street that took them to the entrance to her building.
When he let himself into Helen's flat, Nicola Hammond was alone in the living room, naked to the waist, her back to the door.
A large bruise coloured the upper slope of one breast; dark imprints striped her arms close to the shoulder where Goldman had gripped her.
‘Jay, right, he can not know what I'm talking about, say you're distraught, acting irrationally, suffering from bizarre flights of fancy.
She went to a drawer and came back with her tough-it-out pack, unopened, and some matches.
‘They'll want to leave the country, but they'll have to go there first — records of sales, addresses, phone numbers.
Putting her in danger, making demands, being a dress size smaller, trailing her grief, smoking when Helen couldn't, displaying her bruises, displaying her loss, winning her stand-off with Culley.
Nicola was examining her bruise, her fingertips stroking the place and moving only in one direction, as if she might draw the pain down and away.
A green BMW with the boot ajar stood outside the rear entrance of the fourth house; a man was loading boxes and files.
Culley went back to the street, passed the front of the house, then turned and retraced his steps in time to see the car pull out of the cul-de-sac and move away from him.
He stood off from the left-hand window and kicked the big bottom pane, pulling his foot back before it interrupted the fall of glass, then kicked again to clear the residue.
Culley took a captain's chair that was standing by a wall and placed it just  back from centre in the room.
‘Two men, a green BMW, loading up at the back of the house, please don't fuck me around,’ Culley said, ‘because I'm becoming angry, and I want to know where they've gone.’
Schmidt waited to see how bad it would be to begin with — a gauge of how bad it might become.
I don't think you know who shot Jay Hammond, but I'm sure you know who paid for the job to be done.
Culley pulled on the man's hair as if it were a bell rope, backhanded him across the throat again, then clamped his hand over Schmidt's mouth.
When the door opened, he was too far into the jamb to confront Elliott directly and his kick came off the wood, catching an arm and missing the ribs entirely.
He didn't spare Schmidt a glance; his eyes held Culley's, waiting for the glint that betrays sudden movement.
He feinted left, drawing a punch and slipping it, then played the bluff and went in fast, going left again.
He took another head punch before ducking under Elliott's arm and turning so that they passed one another, Culley clubbing with laced fingers.
Outside, Goldman was looking down at Schmidt as if he  were standing on a cliff's edge and peering at the drop.
Early evening, a rhomboid of sunlight mellowing on the wall, Brahms' violin concerto ripening towards its second movement, the pungent crispness of gin as it swamped her tongue.
When a breeze shifted the curtain, she could see a plump line of jet-trail and the flexing brilliance of a rising planet.
He was browsing, going slowly, while she watched the planet's pulse-light, imagining the fierce arcs of fire crackling in blackness.
There was just the touch he gave, disembodied, little rills of pleasure that seemed to be arriving from nowhere.
So still that all she could count on was her own heat, her own response; so still that she was alone with the moment, her own delight, the sound of her own voice crying out.
She swung up and straddled him, moving fast, one hand flat on his stomach, the other under the fork of her legs, gripping him while she sat.
Back bowed, she plunged, pulling her own knees to spread them, feeling the dig of her heels each time she dropped.
The cream paint was beginning to yellow; a couple of crusty, filling-station mugs stood on top of a metal filing cabinet.
From Britain — you'd probably smuggle it to France, put it through a maze, you know, take it south, country roads; that's half a day with two drivers.
Dogs can take you directly to a few kilos of heroin welded into the chassis, but they're not too good at sniffing out a Renoir.
It can be an insurance scam, of course; some owner who needs money more than he needs the family heirloom.
Spends his life trading paintings for a glass of wine and a fuck; a hundred years later, some toffee-nosed clown at Sotheby's is knocking them out for upwards of eight million.
You'd have to suspect that they were holding the wife to ransom so that her husband would give them access.’
You don't want to lock your pictures away in a vault, so you make a vault of the room they're in.
Another is that they don't shove the gear up on their dining-room walls; you can't have a cop or two  show up at some billionaire's apartment in Sutton Place and demand to go through the strongroom.
The beast by candle-light; the trip to bed where all the things you wouldn't do, haven't done, are things he'll make you do, and things you'll want; and then the beast's departure, out on his own, still smelling your smell but looking for fresh tracks.
There are those who like to hang them on the wall and look at them, but generally speaking that's taken to be pretty eccentric behaviour.’
You walk in here with a bagful of goodies and that preposterously expensive bottle of wine, looking like shit wouldn't stick to your shoe, and want me to pretend that we're married, we're happy, and that it's always happened like this.
Somewhere  along the way, I'll come across the man who organized Jay Hammond's death; then, further on, the man who killed him.
She'd tried to hold on to the anger she'd felt earlier, but it had slipped away from her, dissolving with the wine.
His betrayal of Nicola Hammond ought to have annoyed her — not for Nicola's sake, but because she was reminded of risks she'd taken; of risks she might have to take.
Do you think I-want-you-back is a game with only one set of rules?
After Hammond was killed, they got a phone call — you'll get what he got unless you pull the deal.
You expect me to keep that a secret — from your wife, your children, relatives, superiors — the world at large, in fact.’
A grandfather clock, a bow-legged sideboard, a silver tantalus on a polished, draw-leaf table,kilims on varnished floorboards.
The bruise was a dull, greenish sickle of shadow just under the cheek-bone and then a comma of purple on the side of the nose, as if Culley had been wearing ill-fitting glasses.
Culley took change from a ten pound note from the barman and passed it on to Stan, then carried the drinks over to the table where Kelso was sitting.
Every so often, he goes to a local hospital where they give him an injection of something, which cheers him up noticeably.
Your man might have tendencies towards ruthlessness, like to be in control of people and situations, make his own rules, be good at taking but not so good at giving.
He threw the orange to one of the theatre-goers, then stooped to pick up a glass jug, keeping the book and the saucepan going.
Groups of young men just off the tourist buses laughed at the pictures outside strip clubs, grabbing their own crotches and punching each other 's arms; then they filed solemnly in.
‘It sounds as if you want me to have a contract drawn up for signature by the parties of the first part.’
We had a house, plenty of room for everything, really, except that there wasn't enough room for you and me, was there?
In the middle of the crowd — people arriving, people leaving, lost children, tannoy announcements, people queueing at the cashiers' grilles, checking the airport shops, lugging their cases into the restaurants…in the middle of all that, Culley looked for someone special.
Someone who could touch you from a distance — a tiny electric ripple across your shoulders, a pucker of muscle, a goose across your grave.
He collected his boarding card and found a seat in the cafeteria that allowed him to look down on the concourse.
Martin Jackson sat among the people waiting by the arrivals gate and read a journal he'd picked up at the news-stand.
There was a rather stagy photograph of the man who'd written the article casting on a shingle beach; in a companion photo, he'd set up a three-rod line and was gazing mistily over the breakers.
As he reached the departures area, he swung his walk-on bag from right hand to left and took his boarding-card from a hip pocket.
Other passengers were queueing at the check-point, most of them looking back as if that glimpse was all they could carry with them to their destinations.
He put the phone down, intending to call again, and stretched out on the bed with the last swallow of his bourbon.
In a room across the courtyard, a noiseless television shed stabs of light, as if a vast torchbeam were being played around the walls.
Three rows of tiny figures circled a Navaho basket, holding hands forever in the weave; black squares for heads, so that they seemed to be facing inward to preserve the sanctity of the dance.
To Mathers, he said, ‘This the guy?’ then, without waiting for a response, looked at Culley and said, ‘You're looking to hassle Kemp.’
The dead eye was shuttered under a black patch held by a cord that went under one ear then reappeared, coming out of the hairline and down across the forehead.
Whisky had made him heavy in the torso and puffed up his face so that the true features were blurred, as if permanently in shadow.
Culley used his imagination to refine what he saw, and a handsome man stepped out of the half-light.
People bid for him at auctions, a guy called Henry Glinwood mostly —‘an anonymous buyer’— but his reputation goes before him.’
Culley half-rose, but Cattini put out a hand to stop him, and glanced back at the barman who lifted a bottle and dug a highball glass into an ice-container.
‘Oh, shit, I don't know what you're looking for, but I'm damn sure I know what you'll find.’
Crumpled flesh, sunken and dark as fig-fruit; at its centre, a black hole, a tunnel-mouth to the place where dreams are stored.
When Carl Mathers's car pulled up in view of the rose garden, just a few golden trails were left on the hard blue, a threadbare tapestry.
Well, I can't let you listen to what's being said in the entire house without having access to the entire house.
I might get you a couple of rooms — but then again, at some point I have to be in the rooms to do that.’
‘So if you can come up with a way of going down there, past the guards, up to the house, into a room or two, and being left alone for a couple of minutes while I secure the devices — OK, you've got what you want.’
Culley tracked left and found him again, startled by the way the image was drawn to stand before him, as if his voice must be heard, as if the man must see as clearly as he was seen — Levis, stetson, a loose shirt; a rifle cradled in one arm.
‘I could wait for dark, bypass the current in the fence, climb over, sneak up to the house, stick a bug on one of the windows and hope they wouldn't see it.’
Or there's a laser device — you bounce a beam off a window; the window vibrates, acts like a diaphragm in a radio speaker.
CIA might lend you one — or some big company that's recently completed a successful takeover and doesn't need it any more.’
You have to get letter heads printed, make it look good, have a fake box number.
Mathers let go the wheel to get a cigarette from his shirt with one hand and press the dashboard lighter with the other.
Seemed to go back and forth between the reservation and the city for a while looking for the right place to be.
The pit was nothing more elaborate than a series of planks chocked up to make an erratic knee-high circle.
The handlers stood on one side, each holding his bird in a double grip, one arm underneath for support, the fingers of the other hand loosely grasping the crop.
They had driven to the edge of the city, into the brittle mauve of dusk, lights starting up in buildings everywhere as if some vast signal beacon were slowly igniting.
The cocks went straight in, spring-loaded, their neck and saddle hackles up, trying short jabs to breast and neck.
The blue was a flyer, wings trimmed to prevent him from going too high in the action; he got up in a sudden whirr of fury, looking for a brain blow, but gaffing the dun bird in the breast.
The judge was midway round the circle, looking down the scratch line, a grey-haired man in a torn suit jacket and a homburg.
The gaff raked one wing and the birds circled, necks stretched towards each other, then engaged at the same time, heels clubbing.
The dun's handler plucked a tail feather and held the down at the quill-end against a neck wound to staunch the blood.
He glanced across to where a fat woman in a braid shirt stood waiting, a big, slate-coloured stag tucked up beside her breast.
The blue-barred stag twisted away from the steel and found height, dipping like a lapwing, and dropping for a head shot.
The dun cock went down as the blue followed through, landing full-flush and kneading the gaffs on the dun's heart as if he were working a treadle.
Sanchez reached into his shirt pocket and drew out a fat paper cylinder, stroking its length with pursed fingers to smooth the kinks.
He'd decided to tell Sanchez that something had come into the market, something both he and Kemp would want.
There was nothing revealing about Culley's pause — the surprise was genuine, as if Sanchez had come straight to a point that Culley had intended to arrive at slowly.
If I take this out from under Kemp's nose and present it to my buyer, I'm first choice when he needs an agent again.
We could talk about a proportion of that for you — each time I take him out of some piece of action, you stand to gain.
But if this works, if I hear something I can use and it works, then we both make money — you now, me later.’
Culley had no idea whether what he was saying was taking effect; Sanchez's face was turned to the light, his cheek deeply shadowed.
Gives me a better idea of what he's doing-how much he's spending, what he's spending it on.’
In the snowlight and pitch-dark planes from the ruined door, the man's Indian features stood in hard relief: cheek-bones and square jaw, strong nose, broad upper lip.
As she bent to the set, holding the bird's waist and wheezing slightly, her big breasts tumbled into her shirt-front.
This time of year, Kemp liked to take his ride around eight in the morning, before the sun had gained height.
Three times a week, Ira would saddle a couple of quarter-horses and they'd walk between the banked roses, listening  to the zip ,zip ,zip , as water from fifty sprinklers fell among the blooms.
He'd tell how sandhill cranes migrated to Sulphur Springs Valley each fall, or deliver a short lecture on the vast dance circles and power rings in the tierra del muerto .
You can use any phone with a direct line facility — your hotel will have one; nine, then the number, whatever.
Culley's teeth ached slightly along the line of the gum; he imagined he could feel the air trickling through his lungs like snow-melt in a delta.
She was wearing a turquoise string-and-patch bikini bottom and had a technique, when she moved on to her back, of cupping the discarded bra to her breasts and nipping its sides with her upper arms as she turned, in order to cover herself.
She had moved across the courtyard, flagstone by flagstone, to cheat the shadow; now she was boxed in to the last corner of light.
‘Whole ass in view apart from that scrap of cloth there; bare back, so you know she's got a bare front, but all you get's just a promise of something you never see.
Culley hadn't pictured Mathers in the role — throwing a football to some kid with braces on his teeth, wearing a Snoopy apron at the barbecue, sleeping easily alongside the same woman each night.
He said, ‘Irregular hours, late nights,’ but didn't offer anything of his own situation because he wanted to hear more about Carl's.
It's not unusual — kids from the northern cities growing a racial conscience along with their back teeth, inventing something called Real America, hanging round the reservations looking for the spirits of someone's goddamn ancestors.
She ran a finger down either side of the bikini-bottom, smoothing it over her rump, then walked the breadth of the courtyard, heading for some double glass doors.
Water belled from the crown of the fountain, a perfect, circular fall, and plashed from shelf to shelf, translucent in the lamplight.
The general opinion seems to be that since the bastard's decided to stop shooting people, he can remain anonymous, stay at large, enjoy life and freedom, and laugh up his sleeve at an incompetent police force until he decides the time has come for a little more high-velocity fun.’
The Human Communication Research Centre (HCRC), based at The University of Edinburgh and funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (UK), adopts a novel interdisciplinary approach to the study of human information processing, particularly the processing of linguistic communication.
Computer scientists, logicians, linguists, psychologists and biologists from Edinburgh, Glasgow and Durham Universities collaborate to understand human information processing in terms of computation.
Computers are engineers' boxes which process numbers (and maybe letters) in just the ways that humans find most difficult.
But in the last half century, our concepts of computation have been generalised so that it is useful to regard people's processing of information as computations themselves.
In 1950, when the Haskin's Laboratory was set up at Yale University, it was thought to be a 5 year project to produce a box which could perform these two computations.
However, it had not been realised that we process speech as much by our expectations as by our sensations: it is easy for us to hear the same acoustic signal as ‘It's easy to recognise speech’ or ‘It's easy to wreck a nice beach’according to context.
40 years on, linguists, psychologists, engineers, computer scientists know each other better and also have learnt why solving the general version of this problem is still years away.
Similarly, people can read a paragraph and employ the information it contains to answer questions, solve problems, plan action, translate into another language, or to precis.
These computations were not seen as hard to explain until engineers tried to programme the newly available ‘computer’ to perform them.
The 1950s machine translation programme which turned a visiting general's test sentence ‘The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak’ into Russian and then back into ‘The steak is wonderful but the whisky is lousy’is probably apocryphal, but nevertheless all too plausible.
Human beings can hear or see or feel ‘noisy’ signals in particular places and times and use their expectations about the ‘there and then’into a perception of what signals mean.
Engineers have found that this robust perception of noisy patterns in context is the most difficult sort of computation to engineer in their products and these human abilities are the more miraculous the more we try to simulate them.
Of course, these are not the abilities which we pride ourselves upon, and we are much more likely to be impressed by the few things which computers do well which we do badly.
Calculating mathematical functions or remembering meaningless patterns of digits are things at which engineers' boxes excel and which human beings do not.
This is another problem which surfaced from  engineering attempts, but also makes itself evident in authorial blunders — the civil defence poster caption ‘When a hand-grenade lands near by, don't lose your head.
The computer, which of course doesn't find it at all funny, needs to guess what it is, and needs to rely not just on sentence structure but also on general knowledge about heads, grenades and buckets of sand — general knowledge that computers don't have unless it is built in to them.
Building it in is hard because the amount of knowledge which is potentially relevant to decoding each pronoun, is extremely large.
HCRC has created a unique database of conversations between pairs of people engaged on a cooperative communication task involving the transmission of information about routes.
What is unusual about this resource is that at each point in the dialogue it is known what idea the speaker is trying to express, and what information the hearer has which provides the context for its understanding.
This makes it possible to study subtle processes of coordination: for example, when words are repeated they are generally pronounced less clearly after the first time, but only if they are being used to refer to the same thing.
Another project seeks to understand precisely the vagueness of natural language, not only so that we can communicate better with computers, but also because vagueness is a valuable commodity for computation in general.
An easy party-trick demonstration is to take a paragraph and replace all the occurrences of most, many, few, lots, several, hardly any etc. with percentages.
This reveals that these words do not just carry information about proportions but also about speakers' expectations, and even speakers' expectations about hearers' expectations and so on.
Imagine booking an airplane ticket and trying to decide whether to book APEX now, or to wait until plans are firmer.
Being told (perhaps by an automatic booking system) that there are 31 seats left is much less informative than being told that there are a lot or few, unless you have information about sizes of planes and expected booking rates.
The system for expressions of vague information built into human languages is of great subtlety and precision and if we can unravel its complexities, engineers will be only too happy to make computers vague.
One project looks at the diagrammatic system which Euler, the great German mathematician, invented in the eighteenth century to teach a German Princess syllogisms, and which is still the basis of much teaching of elementary logic and mathematics.
It turns out that the system depends on some subtle and hitherto unnoticed peculiarities of the logic, in combination with general features of graphical representations.
This project will now generalise its findings to the graphical teaching of more powerful logics and to the choice of media of expression in the design of computer interfaces.
HCRC is one of several departments in the University interested in ‘neural networks’, a style of computational architecture which is inspired by psychology and neuroscience but which engineers are now incorporating into their artefacts.
Instead of a single central processor autocratically controlling  a whole computation, large numbers of autonomous computing units cooperate to arrive in a communal state which reflects the outcome of the computation.
Something like these mechanisms must explain how the brain can compute results about distorted contextually determined patterns so fast on the basis of cells which perform hundreds rather than millions of operations per second.
The study of neural networks has brought together researchers from physics, electrical engineering, pharmacology, neuroscience, psychology and artificial intelligence because it applies the methods of the natural sciences to the study of cognitive systems.
So what has come to be called ‘cognitive science’(the science of knowledge) is intertwined with cognitive engineering.
Cognitive science amounts to the adoption of methods and technology developed by the ‘natural sciences’ and mathematics for an attack on these problems of understanding human existence.
Some people react to the notion that a human being might be understood as a computer of a certain sort as demeaning of what is special about human beings.
Science can try to understand what happened in the first half billionth of a second of the life of the universe.
We hope that both questions will be pursued with equal vigour and no doubt they will turn out to be unpredictably related to each other.
The dull brick it was originally built in has been encrusted with sculpted mermaids, studded with life-size rhinoceros heads, and given ramparts of giant frogs.
One group tells you that the nineteenth-century owner, a wealthy merchant, had a beautiful daughter who drowned in an accident in a nearby lake.
The others say the owner was a concrete salesman who wanted to use these fantastic sculptures to demonstrate the possibilities of his product.
Some people tell you this is to commemorate the massacre of radical students in Tsarist times; others that it was simply the whim of the original architect.
Even as they dodge through the traffic clogging Kiev's main street, Kreshchatik, pedestrians will assure you that it is no longer possible to buy petrol.
Citizens who had the orthodox Soviet version of Ukrainian history rammed down their throats for decades are now being told a completely different version, arguably also coloured by the political prejudices of its authors.
Many other languages have been heard in Kiev since it grew up on the banks of the river Dnieper, a waypoint on the waterborne merchant route between Viking Scandinavia and ancient Byzantium.
In the tenth century the Kiev merchants used to half-drag, half-row their small boats, monoxyla, past the Dnieper rapids on the way to the Byzantine markets, constantly menaced by the ferocious Pecheneg people inhabiting the southern steppes.
The Kievan prince Vladimir chose the Greek version of Christianity over Islam and Roman Catholicism because his ambassadors reported that the Greek ceremony was the most beautiful.
The Slav-Greek-Viking metropolis was capital of one of the greatest states in medieval Europe: it was all but destroyed in 1240 by the Mongols under Genghis Khan's grandson Khan Baty.
Six years later a papal envoy passing the city reported scarcely two hundred houses still standing, with human bones scattered across the countryside.
Great in terms of size — three million people live there today — its architecture, its place in history, its potential role in world events.
Since the long years of the Pax Mongolica ended many banners have fluttered over Kiev, almost impossible to defend in its position on the fertile flatlands east of the Carpathians.
Writing about the immediate aftermath of the 1917 Russian Revolution, the Kiev-born writer Mikhail Bulgakov recalled: ‘I can say only one thing for the moment — according to the calculations of the Kievans they had 18 changes of power.
Several of the travelling memoirists have counted 12; I can state with certainty that there were 14, ten of which I experienced personally.’
Somewhere between the Mongols and the present day the lands to the north of the Black Sea acquired the name Ukraina, which means ‘at the border’.
It was here in 1911, for instance, that the ruthless, reforming Russian First Minister Peter Stolypin was gunned down by a Jewish police agent in full view of the Tsar, at a gala opera night.
‘Stolypin, who was standing with his back to the stage, turned towards Nicholas, his Imperial master, made the sign of the cross, and fell, mortally wounded’ as Edward Crankshaw described the scene.
They worked and waited, singing their Ukrainian songs and writing their Ukrainian poems, nursing their history, and began over the years to drift into the city.
But because it is Kiev it looks as if many truths, many pasts, will continue to co-exist there side by side.
Look at some of the ornate stucco work on those elegant nineteenth century town houses; it turns out they are hammers and sickles, ordered by Stalin to show that whatever the capitalists could do, communists could do too.
The huge, ugly steel arch built in Soviet times to commemorate the union of Russia and Ukraine stands untouched at the end of Kreshchatik, though the union is no more.
Rather than take it down, perhaps future generations of Kievans will blur the fact of what it stood for, with some typically romantic yarn — that it is a monument to rainbows, for example, or the antennae of a UFO-detecting device.
From the Hollywood treatment of Greyfriars Bobby, through Peter Sellers' wonderful Morningside accent in Battle of the Sexes, to Restless Natives in 1985 and, right up to date, Cormorant Films' award-winning Tickets for the Zoo about the despair of homelessness amongst the young.
Perhaps, like me, the unforgettable portrayal of Miss Jean Brodie by Maggie Smith captures perfectly for you the absolute belief in itself that Edinburgh has, in the rightness of her cause and the rectitude of her citizens.
Set against the enduring strength of the city's architecture and way of life, the film reflects an attitude that you would recognise even now in Marchmont and the New Town.
Of course, this is a tribute to Muriel Spark's novel as much as to the film; and this is a key to the moving image portrayal of Edinburgh and its surroundings — film-makers have come to Edinburgh to produce stories which are set here already, generally well-known stories from fact or fiction.
Apart from those already mentioned, there were the various Burke and Hare/Jekyll and Hyde adaptations, the Thirty Nine Steps at South Queensferry and parts of Chariots of Fire at Goldenacre and Inverleith.
Films from indigenous writers and producers have also tended to be written about some aspect of Edinburgh, like Bill Douglas' autobiographical trilogy, My Way Home, Jam Jar's Conquest of the South Pole and Tickets for the Zoo.
Contrast this with major production centres such as Hollywood, New York, London, where people ‘make films’, about anything, not just stories set in the locale.
Producers use built sets and fake locations to portray the setting of the story — Toronto has made millions of dollars ‘being’ New York, because it is so difficult and expensive to film in the Big Apple nowadays.
In fact, as film-makers have moved out of the studio and on to location, to achieve more realistic impressions of dramatic situations, the attraction of on-location filming into cities and regions has become big business.
While Edinburgh and Lothian's film commission is just two years old, the US based Association of Film Commissioners was founded in 1975, to attract filming away from Holywood.
The first film commission in Britain was set up in 1989 in Liverpool, in response to Mersey Television's need for locations around that city, as they developed drama programmes from their base in Brookside.
The advent of Channel Four in 1982 was the catalyst which was to change film-making in Britain, at least in the regions.
Here was a TV station which did not make its own programmes but, instead, contracted with independent producers — who did not operate from studios in    the traditional sense.
It is no coincidence that the centre of independent film-making in Great Britain is in Soho, around the Charlotte Street headquarters of Channel Four.
Similarly, it has to be owned that film — and programme-making in Scotland, while existing mainly on an axis across the central belt, has its centre of gravity in ‘that other place’ in the West.
Perhaps in an attempt to redress the balance around the time of the recent franchise re-application, Scottish Television determined to duplicate its international success with Taggart by setting a similar-format drama series in Edinburgh.
Predictably, they came up with a plot-line set in the professional reaches of the law, rather than in the more ‘artisan’ area of policing.
The Advocates, however, was no Perry Mason and ruffled the Edinburgh legal establishment with its artistic licence and earthy exploration of the downside of the City's public face — prostitution, Aids and social deprivation — contrasted with the cosy self-satisfaction of the educated classes.
From the point of view of the regional film office, however, the vital thing is to get Edinburgh on film, in order to present all the faces of the City and the Region to the world.
There has been a series on Edinburgh, although only one of them, Sean Connery's Edinburgh (1982), was actually commissioned as such by the City Council.
The others were purely personal expressions of the film-maker's relationship with the City, from Waverley Steps in 1947, through Prospect for a City (1967) and Walkabout Edinburgh (1970), to Demarco's Art in a Cold Climate in 1988.
Whether commissioned as a promotional tool or not, the showing of such films has had a major effect on the outside world's perception of Edinburgh.
We do not actually know, of course, if this effect has been good or bad; but the tourists keep coming, potential undergraduates keep applying and  companies do relocate into the area.
It has been estimated that up to one third of the production budget of a movie can be left on location.
This consists not only of the direct costs of making the film, such as the purchase of equipment and labour; but also the indirect, tourist effects of spending in hotels, shops and restaurants.
Money spent on crew and equipment makes for better crew and facilities, makes for better productions, makes for more productions and more money spent on crew and facilities.
Ultimately, we must have a strong, indigenous film production industry so that we can make strong and successful films which will speak of our culture to the outside world with creativity, power and commitment.
The new Scottish Film School opens at Napier next January, to build on existing courses at Napier, the College of Art, Stevenson and Esk Valley.
The new fifth television channel, wherever it is situated, will open up further opportunities for programme-makers when it starts up at the end of 1993.
Both the bid for Channel Five and plans for the new Teleport to be operated at South Gyle, carrying signals for both Television and Telecommunications via satellite, cable and fibre optic lines, are well advanced and require the continued integration of technologies to carry on the task of promoting Edinburgh as a centre of excellence in the new media.
The training ground and low-cost facilities which this will provide will allow access for just about anyone to the means of moving image expression.
Meanwhile, the latest piece by one of Scotland's most respected film-makers of the old school, Margaret Tait, is in production with Viz Films of Inverkeithing.
This is Blue Black Permanent, a full-length feature for Channel Four and the first drama feature to be supported financially by the City itself.
Set up by the University in 1984, UnivEd is the first point of contact for industrialists seeking to exploit the University's top-class resources of staff and equipment.
In all three areas, the University of Edinburgh operates at an international level, transferring skills and technology to companies and organisations world-wide.
On the R&D front, UnivEd negotiates contracts for basic and applied research in key sectors such as Information Technology, Healthcare, Environmental Studies and Biological Sciences.
BT is supporting a major research project within the University's Centre for Speech Technology Research to design and test computer generated dialogues for more efficient and flexible automated telephone services.
The aim of the work is to help computerised services — such as telephone banking — handle real dialogues with a human caller, by investigating the types of questions, answers and other features which will produce successful transactions.
A recent unusual match of consultant to client is the work carried out by the University's Centre for Field Archaeology for Shell Chemicals UK Ltd.
A team from the Centre assessed the route to be taken by Shell's North Western Ethylene Pipeline to determine how archaeological sites close to its path — from Grangemouth on the Firth of Forth to Stanlow in Cheshire — might be affected by the proposed construction work and how potential damage might be mitigated.
The University, through UnivEd, is a major provider of high-quality training, updating and reskilling for Scottish, European and international industry, commerce and government, with a comprehensive programme of courses, seminars and conferences presented by some 2,400 academics — acknowledged experts in their particular fields.
The University and Motorola University of Schaumburg, Illinois, recently signed a collaborative agreement on the development of training materials and methods for use both by Motorola in its electronics companies around the world and the University of Edinburgh in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Another of UnivEd's functions is the formation of campus companies through which products and processes discovered by staff can be developed commercially together with industrial partners.
For example, a world breakthrough in the design of an image sensing chip by staff in Electrical Engineering has been marketed by a campus company, VLSI Vision Ltd, to an industrial partner, Automated Security (Holdings).
The end product is an award-winning security alarm system based on the innovative technology of fitting all the components of a video camera onto a microchip.
The University is one of a number of higher education institutions in the UK taking part in the Department of Employment's Enterprise in Higher Education Initiative which from 1 April 1992 has, in Scotland, become the responsibility of Scottish Enterprise.
Now in the third year of a five-year contract, The Enterprise Centre is funding 43 projects, with the active support of a growing number of Employer Partners, throughout the University.
The aim of the projects is to bring about change in the degree curriculum which will encourage students to develop qualities and skills which extend beyond the specialised knowledge of their degree courses.
Graduates on leaving University have to be capable of a DEGREE PLUS, where PLUS is: Planning and managing change; Leading and motivating people; Utilising resources and numerical skills; and Self-development for life-long learning.
To encourage the development of these skills the Enterprise Projects involve: developing team and group work; self-directed learning; communication skills; case studies; work experience; and career planning.
Support is given to the staff involved by providing the Academic Link programme with places on in-house company training courses.
Very much in tune with the work of The Enterprise Centre are the Insight into Management Courses organised annually by the University's Careers Service in association with the Careers Research and Advisory Centre (CRAC).
They bring together students and young managers from over 100 leading UK companies in a series of simulated work situations and case studies, aimed at giving students an appreciation of management functions, problems and decision-making.
In the year of the 25th Olympiad and the 90th anniversary of the birth of the legendary Olympic Gold Medallist Eric Liddell, athletics coach Margot Wells, whose husband Allan took the Olympic 100m gold in Moscow, looks at life in the fast lane, in 1924,1980 and now.
In 1924 most of the athletes in the British team were students or people who could afford the privilege of running for their country .
Even so, they were still the poor relations when it came to wearing tracksuits or ‘sweats’ as the Americans liked to call them.
In 1980 when Allan Wells won a Gold Medal at the Olympics I looked at the British tracksuits and thought: well, nothing much has changed in 56 years!
Except, that is, the people who were taking part and the level of commitment required to win in 1980 as opposed to 1924.
Probably the easiest way I can explain to you how athletics has changed since Eric Liddell won Olympic Gold in 1924 is to ask you to put the situation in a modern context.
For example, if Linford Christie were a man of such deep religious beliefs that he would not compete on a Sunday and subsequently found out that a qualifying round of the 100m was to be held on a Sunday, he would have to think long and hard before deciding to run the 400m.
In Barcelona, Eric Liddell would have to run two rounds of the 200m, followed by the semi-final and the final the next day.
Often as not, the qualifying rounds for the 400m coincide with the final rounds of the 200m and this would weaken his chances in both events.
Not only that, he would know well in advance the order of the programme, and consequently would have altered his training dramatically to account for the extra distance.
If he still opted to run the 400m, he would probably make it through to the semi-finals, but he certainly would not win.
A top-level sprinter could not be a top-level  javelin thrower and even less possible is it that he could reach the top in another sport as well.
Today's world-class athlete no longer needs to have a full-time job to support his or her athletics.
The one thing that has not changed is that in order to gain success at the very highest level the athlete's training has to be geared to the specific needs of the event.
If the film ‘Chariots of Fire’ is to be believed, Eric Liddell did most of his training running up and down Arthur's Seat in between preaching and racing.
Allan Wells' training consisted of speedball training and gym circuits, hill running, bounding and specific sprint training on the track.
In fact, the only similarity between the film and Allan Wells' training was Harold Abraham's high knee stepping drills — and we thought that exercise was invented by Don Quarrie!
It is a great achievement for any Scot to win an Olympic Gold Medal, no matter when it is achieved and no matter in which event.
With modern-day technology it is getting harder to achieve all the time, but there is one common denominator in the case of Eric Liddell and Allan Wells, and that is the fierce determination to win and the intense pride of doing it for Scotland.
Launched on St Andrew's Day 1990, the Eric Liddell Foundation is the inspiration of Scots-born, Hong-Kong based civil engineer Charles Walker .
The idea of marking the site of Liddell's grave at Weifang in China, and establishing the Foundation came to him while researching a book on Liddell.
It aims to encourage young athletes from Hong Kong, China and Scotland, who might not otherwise reach their full potential, by bringing them together through their respective Amateur Athletic Associations.
Twenty-four young people — four each from Scotland, China and Hong Kong, as well as South Africa, Japan and Canada — will learn and train together, and share one another 's cultures.
Once again, the Ian Charleson Memorial Award — named after another of the University's graduates, who portrayed Liddell in the film ‘Chariots of Fire’— will be presented to the participants contributing most to cross-cultural links.
For further information on the Foundation, please write to: The Eric Liddell Foundation, Hong Kong Bank International Trustee Ltd, 2/F China Building, 29 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong.
At the 1924 Paris Olympics Liddell decided to withdraw from his chosen distance, the 100m as it would have meant competing on a Sunday.
As old age creeps on I occasionally reflect, in that pious way that is one of the perks of advancing years, about those things in my education which proved to be of most use in later life .
I left school at the age of 17, anxious to get into the wider world, and without much thought went to the university of my home town, at that time a pretty universal habit.
Yet the clutch of Highers and then the Ordinary MA with which I eventually emerged turned out to be a pretty useful preparation for a life in journalism.
I spent a few years on The Scotsman and then to Thomson House to join The Guardian soon after it dropped the ‘Manchester’ from its title and started printing in London.
Some of the leading members of staff of that period went on to become directors of international institutes or occupy high positions in academic life.
Yet I found that the breadth of my Scottish education stood me in good stead in the work of assessing and editing material from the whole agenda of a serious newspaper.
I had even studied Geology as my science subject and although I was cack-handed and obtuse when it came to the practical side had enjoyed the theory well enough.
(I now discover that doctrines then prevalent, for example about mountain-building, have since been discarded).
In one of his class exams he set a test in which he had jumbled the sentences in a passage of prose.
I found that I put them back into their correct order with ease and, for the first and last time, achieved some distinction in the marking.
He used to say that nothing could be more ludicrous than going to a football match and then reading somebody else's account of what you had already seen.
I later learned that those who would be most keen to read such an account were precisely those who had been at the game.
To our philosophy teacher, Professor John Macmurray, I owed the perception that my chosen trade was a treacherous one if what you looked for was strict objectivity.
A dramatic event would be played out in front of the class — for example a man would run in pursued by another.
The class would then be asked to write an account of the incident and Professor Macmurray took great pleasure in pointing out that not one version tallied with any of the others.
I comfort myself with that recollection when dealing with complaints about my own paper, very much part of a modern editor's work in an age when our readers have become more critical and more discriminating, but Professor Macmurray's insights have helped me to distinguish between those complaints that flow, as they sometimes do, from a different subjective interpretation of a given body of facts and those that arise from a straightforward error on our part.
Knocking around the university, and living a little on my wits, I also learned, in the student press, something of practical value for my future career and something of the university of life.
At length the Head Messenger, a man from East London of some presence but little formal education, stepped forward: ‘Perhaps I can help you, gentlemen,’ he said with a deferential cough.
One afternoon I completed another unsuccessful attempt at a cannon: I had no sooner moved away than the pipe crashed down exactly where I had been standing.
Since that day I have never spent much time at the green table and, once I got out into the world of journalism, worked hard at it.
And the ability to express yourself forcefully and clearly, to be able to master the sense of an issue and convey it to others, is an enormous help to any career.
My father, a cultivated man in every other respect, nursed a strong contempt for science which rubbed off on me and, I suspect, went right back to the Darwinian controversies of the nineteenth century, for he was the son of the manse.
Even today, with the growth of computers in every branch of business, it is rare to find a computer man who can explain himself in simple English.
I do not know if scientists are taught to write precis or if arts students are still made to study a little science.
If not, it is their loss, for it is the catholicity of the education to which I was exposed that I have come most to value.
We wouldn't be surprised if David Mellor at the newly created British Ministry for the arts, tourism, heritage, media and sport (see this page) hasn't already booked his ticket.
In this issue you can read about Auvers-sur-l'Oise where many of the Impressionists lived and painted, which has decided to give its tourists the hyperreal experience of walking through ‘Dejeuner sur l'herbe’ and travelling in the padded compartments of a nineteenth-century train with Monet landscapes outside.
This has already given the Southerners ‘Rameses the Great’, ‘Treasures of the Hermitage’, and ‘Splendors of the Ottoman Sultans’, and this month there opens an exhibition on the Etruscans from the Vatican museums.
The full might of American marketing know-how has been put behind these shows, with stickers, package tours, bill-boards, radio commercials all pulling in the masses: culture and profit, say the city fathers.
The curators of the grand US museums like the Metropolitan look down their noses at these shows, but the citizens of Memphis are pleased as can be, because before WONDERS they just felt out in the boondocks.
This way they at least get a chance to see good, moving, beautiful and interesting things, to lengthen their sense of history (notoriously short in the US).
Who are we to judge and belittle the nature of their experience merely because the profit-motive has made it possible.
Has lavish French State patronage got any closer to the nub of the matter, which is how to create the most civilised world possible for its citizens, in which their minds, spirits and creativity can develop to their greatest potential?
The answer must be that it is much less important by what mechanisms people come across art than what they themselves bring to the encounter.
If undemanding schooling methods, supplemented by hours in front of cretinous, discontinuous TV programmes, have given them a thirty-second attention span, poor linguistic skills, therefore poor conceptualising and critical powers, and a craving for instant entertainment, then it will not matter what cultural policy a government adopts.
In this respect, the French government is right to have made the Minister of Culture also Minister of Education (although whether they have done it for the right reasons, and with the right man is another matter).
Certainly, a director of a major British museum confided to this paper that he wished museums were linked to education rather than the new multibranched Ministry of National Heritage.
The question is whether David Mellor knows that mere fun gets boring very quickly; that excellence, whether in the media, sports or arts can be achieved only through difficulty, through painstaking work, through seriousness; that people cannot be conned for long.
‘Teaching is my profession’, said Jack Lang on French television the day after his appointment last month as Ministère de l'Education Nationale and confirmation as continuing Ministre of Culture.
The Socialist Minister has not missed an opportunity to remind those who regard him only as a tireless champion of culture that he is a qualified professor of international law.
He has always worked hard to present himself as a rounded political being and flung himself into debates on law and public safety, the environment and unemployment.
That he has been able to combine both ministries would be surprising were it not for the fact that he has worked as an active Socialist besides having a good track record in cultural affairs.
As is widely known, Jack Lang is a staunch supporter of President Mitterrand, an important factor in the current protective government formed by Pierre Bérégovoy around the head of State.
Lang's success at a ministerial level has not a little to do with the excellent relations he has with the President on both a personal and political plane.
The cultural budget, which stood at FFr3 billion in 1981, is now FFr13 billion (£1.3 billion; $2.3 billion) thirteen years later, precisely because he could count on the unconditional support of President Mitterrand, who is not only an acknowledged lover of both the arts and literature, but also requires an element of grandeur to be orchestrated and injected into large-scale projects (see p.12).
Grands projets apart, it is the philosophy of art for the people, both in large cities and in small communities, the encouragement of creativity, and the promotion of French culture worldwide that are the reason for the proliferation of museums and contemporary art centres and for the resurgence of the film and record industry.
The accusation of going in too many directions at once, of increasing bureaucracy in the Ministry and of mixing the essential with the marginal has been one frequently voiced against Jack Lang.
After an exuberant and spectacular mandate, returning to his previous post in 1988 after an absence of nearly two years, he concentrated his efforts on saving the national heritage, creating a body of trained curators for French museums, and encouraging patronage of the arts without abandoning his penchant for popular adulation (of which his orchestration of the celebrations for the bicentenary of the French Revolution is the prime example).
Lang has also played a part in the admission of rock and graffiti to the cultural fold and given a helping hand to the young unemployed with subsidies for their participation on archaeological digs.
It is precisely among the eighteen to twenty-five years old electorate, which urgently needs to be won over to the Socialist cause before next year's parliamentary elections, that Lang is the most popular Minister of the decade.
Worried by the reforms made by his predecessor Lionel Jospin, those directly affected fear any tendency towards publicity seeking by a ‘Minister of Cultural Education’ who, it seems, has not yet succeeded in shaking off his image as a lightweight.
Switzerland, which at present imposes no restrictions whatsoever on the free circulation of works of art, may soon lose its status as one of the world's most liberal countries in the field of art trade.
The Office Fédéral de la Culture, which is the nearest equivalent in Switzerland to a Ministry of Culture or an Arts Council, has just presented a report to the Swiss government, calling for new legislation controlling the import and export of works of art, and encouraging the authorities to sign the 1970 UNESCO convention.
One of the reasons put forward by the report as justifying strict new import controls is the increasing role allegedly played by Switzerland as a transit centre for objects of doubtful origin, as well as the fact that the art trade has reportedly become a choice vehicle for money laundering, a subject about which the Swiss are especially sensitive.
The report expressly cites the Swiss free port systems (the one in Geneva is particularly well known) as allowing controversial dealings, out of reach of any official control.
The report seems to concede that no export regulation could conceivably have prevented this collection from leaving the country, and also acknowledges that one of the main reasons why Baron von Thyssen, and other great collectors such as Heinz Berggruen, chose to bring their art collection to Switzerland in the first place was, and remains, the great freedom offered by the Swiss legal system.
The report nonetheless considers that some sort of control is necessary, and also favours the introduction of a legal pre-emption right on works of art regarded as being of national importance, and which risk leaving the country.
The report is fair in stating its case in favour of such regulations, without concealing the disadvantages which these new rules would undoubtedly bring about for the Swiss art market.
In any event, the report's recommendations are unlikely to be implemented in the near future, because the Federal Parliament is not constitutionally empowered to pass legislation in cultural matters; the legislative competence in this matter rests at present exclusively at cantonal level.
The measures suggested by the report would therefore require a constitutional change, which usually takes at least three to five years to carry through.
The arts will have a higher profile in the fourth Conservative term, with David Mellor heading a much enlarged department (which for the first time is allocated a place in the Cabinet), flanked by one junior Minister, Robert Key.
The Conservative manifesto announced the surprising decision to create a Department of National Heritage, as proposed by the former Minister of the Arts, Tim Renton, before the election last month.
This department will have responsibilities for the Office of Arts & Libraries (OAL), in particular for the Arts Council and the national museums, adding to them the Home Office responsibilities for the broadcasting services' legislative framework and the BBC in particular.
The film industry and the export of works of art, so far primarily the joint responsibility of the OAL and the Department of Trade and Industry, have long been candidates for transfer to an enlarged arts department.
The Conservative's election manifesto promised that lottery funds will be additional to existing government spending and that the Millennium Fund resources will be used for a number of long term projects including restoring the fabric of great buildings.
Once Tim Renton let it be known that he was not seeking reappointment, David Mellor became a strong candidate, not only for his passionate interest in classical music and football.
He became Minister for the Arts in July 1990 and although he was in this post only a few months, he made a distinct mark.
He won a substantial increase in the arts settlement for 1991/92, giving the Arts Council a 11% rise and the national museums and galleries a 8.5% rise.
As Chief Secretary of the Treasury from November 1990 he is said to have been crucial in ensuring a record settlement for the Arts Council for 1992/93.
On the other hand the arts lobby which has wanted such a department for a long time, is now worried that Mellor, known for his dynamism, strong views and unceremonious manners, could take an interventionist and populist approach, particularly in relation to the Arts Council.
When proposing this fusion of functions, Tim Renton stressed that the prospective department was not modelled on the French Ministry of Culture; it will doubtless develop rather ad hoc at the outset and its role, number of staff and size of budget will depend crucially on the views of the new Minister.
The junior Minister, Robert Key, a teacher by profession and a member of the Chorus of St Martin-in-the-Fields, sat on the Select Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and the Conservative Back bench Committee on the Arts and Heritage.
Barnes officials say they expect to send about eighty paintings from one of the world's finest collections of Post-Impressionist and early modern art to tour four museums: the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., a museum in Tokyo, the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
The tour set for twelve to eighteen months starting in summer 1993 and sales of a catalogue with colour reproductions of Barnes works, are expected to bring in funds for renovating the foundation's gallery building and bringing its operations up to modern standards.
According to an indenture to the will of Albert C. Barnes, the eccentric collector who established the foundation to conduct art appreciation classes based on his extraordinary assemblage of paintings, the foundation is specifically forbidden from loaning any works of art.
On 1 April, lawyers for the Barnes Foundation petitioned the Montgomery County Orphans Court for permission to amend the section to the indenture banning loans.
Barnes officials are seeking to change the language of the indenture to permit works to be loaned only when the foundation galleries are closed for purposes of renovation.
The Barnes petition also asks for the indenture to be amended to allow the Barnes to invest its endowment more flexibly, raise the gallery admission fee from $1, and hold fundraising events on the foundation premises.
Curiously absent from the petition is any mention of amending the ban in Barnes' will on using any reproductions of works from the collection made after Barnes' death in 1951.
In early 1991, Barnes trustees cited those same urgent financial needs when they petitioned the Orphans Court for permission to amend the indenture's ban on selling works of art from the collection.
Barnes president, Richard Glanton, a Philadelphia lawyer, sought to raise money for building repairs by selling up to fifteen works from the collection, which holds masterpieces by Cézanne, Matisse, Renoir and Seurat.
He shelved that petition after the Barnes deaccessioning bid was condemned almost unanimously by museum officials, art historians and the press (see The Art Newspaper, No. 15, February 1992, p. 1).
A tour would provide crucial marketing for a proposed Barnes catalogue, originally intended as a book on the Barnes treasures, to be published by Alfred A. Knopf of New York, an imprint of Random House.
The entire Barnes collection has been examined by National Gallery conservators, and the National Gallery has agreed to arrange for the tour's transportation and insurance.
It has also offered to store works that will not be travelling, and to coordinate every stage of the Barnes exhibition, all without charge.
(The National Gallery will also consult on the publication of the catalogue, a task it will share with the French Réunion des Musées Nationaux, with whom the Barnes has also negotiated.)
When the current petition for amendment of the trust indenture was made public, Glanton also circulated a letter, dated 24 January 1992, from National Gallery director J. Carter Brown, detailing the gallery's willingness to assist the tour, and endorsing the Barnes trustees' ‘active course to assure the institution's future’.
Even with the credibility and power of the National Gallery's support, the Barnes Foundation faces additional legal challenges if it ever hopes to take part of its collection around the world.
The foundation is now being sued by the Violette De Mazia Trust, an organisation funded by the estate of Albert C. Barnes' former assistant, who headed the foundation's educational programme.
The De Mazia trust charges that the Barnes trustees were acting on behalf of Lincoln University when they awarded publishing rights to Alfred A. Knopf.
In his will, Barnes gave Lincoln, a small black institution in rural Pennsylvania, the power to name four out of five trustees to the foundation board.
The De Mazia trust alleges that the selection of Knopf, among a number of publishers seeking publishing rights to the Barnes collection, accompanied the award of $2 million to Lincoln from the Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation.
Lincoln University, and the benefits it might gain from a Barnes tour, were also cited in J. Carter Brown's 24 January letter, now appended to the Orphans Court petition.
Besides revealing that many of the collection's frames were damaged when National Gallery conservators removed paintings for examination, the students say that a plan to store works not included on the tour in either the National Gallery or the Philadelphia Museum of Art would bring the foundation's art classes to an end.
Barnes' will specified that the foundation be established as an educational institution, a mission that will be eliminated when the paintings go on tour, the students say.
One student, Nick Tinari, has been banned from the Barnes grounds for a year for trying to document violations of Barnes' will.
Last month we reported that Venice's churches might have to be closed except during services because of a shortage of funds to pay for custodians.
Venice's parish priests were called together on 2 April by Don Aldo Marangoni, head of the city's Ufficio Chiese (Churches' Department) to discuss their action in protest at the city administration's failure to provide adequate financial support.
At the meeting it was decided to carry out a detailed analysis of the needs of each church 128 in all, of which fifty or so are of prime artistic interest and to calculate precisely the costs involved.
It would, in any case, have been difficult to obtain unanimous support for the complete closure that Don Aldo Marangoni was advocating.
It now seems that a solution to the problem may be found in Law 145 of 10 February 1992, which allocates funding worth L65 billion (£30.1 million; $52.2 million) to be spent over the period 1991-93 on experimental projects to improve the use of museum resources.
The Venice Soprintendenza certainly does not intend to miss out on such an opportunity and has already come up with a proposal, ‘Dal Museo alla città’(From Museum to City), which it estimates would cost L3.8 billion (£1.76 million; $3 million).
The plan centres on the Galleria dell'Accademia, but also includes the city's eleven most interesting churches, namely the Frari, with its Titian masterpieces, and the church and adjoining Scuola of San Rocco, which houses the most important cycle of paintings by Tintoretto.
If this goes ahead, visitors to the Accademia will be able to consult a computer to find out which churches contain further works by the artists featured in the museum itself.
The first stage of the project would, however, be to install security systems and adequate lighting in churches which still lack such equipment.
Finally, there are plans to provide custodians a sore point to enable the churches to open for two hours a day.
The church authorities would then draw up documentation and illustrative material on the works of art concerned, with emphasis given to their religious significance.
The churches and the Assessorato alla Cultura (cultural affairs department) last collaborated in 1988, at the time of the Veronese and Palma Giovane exhibitions when they then worked together to produce two small but well-researched publications on works by the two painters housed in the various churches, with suggested itineraries for visits.
The initiative was not continued, but it now looks as if a new partner has been found in the shape of the Venice Soprintendenza.
Police in Lyon have broken a large scale forgery ring which produced oil paintings and drawings attributed to modern masters including Utrillo, Chagall, Dérain and Dufy valued at ‘several million francs’ according to an early official statement.
Jean-Luc Baland, age thirty-three, from Blois in the Loir-et-Cher, was arrested on 31 March at Paris's Orly airport and charged on 3 April with ‘forgery and use of fakes, fake certificates and handling fakes’.
Police are now eager to interview Baland's uncle, a sixty-five year old French national and painter living in the U.S. Police enquiries began in March 1989 with the seizure of a Utrillo painting ‘Impasse Traînée à Montmartre’ and a drawing by the same artist ‘La maison de Mimi Pinson’at Bourg-en-Bresse following charges brought against a local auctioneer, by Jean Fabris, chairman of the Association Maurice Utrillo and the man who possesses the ‘droit moral’over Utrillo's work the right in French law to defend an artist's reputation, particularly in the courtroom.
Investigators went on to discover a drawing also entitled ‘La maison de Mimi Pinson’ at an auctioneer's in Limoges in central France.
All proved to be fakes, as did their certificates of authenticity which purported to be those of Paris art expert, Paul Petridès.
His gallery on the faubourg Saint Honoré is now run by Gilbert Petridès, the son of Paul, who continues to sell and authenticate Utrillo works in collaboration with Fabris.
Police who searched the house of Baland in Blois after his arrest are reported to have found a wide range of forgeries including four Chagall drawings, four works by Dérain, ten by Dufy, two by Jean Cocteau, a Camille Pissarro and eighteen drawings described as being by ‘Maîtres de l'école de Pont-Aven’.
The agreement, which was drawn up in fairly obscure terms, proposed that the now-sovereign states of the former USSR should return to each other works of art on the basis of whose territory they were created on, the nationality of the artist, or just on the principle of ‘I want it, it's mine’.
Alongside a parliamentary enquiry, journalists and specialists are conducting their own: it turns out that the issue of claims and the possible division of the cultural heritage of the CIS member states was first raised in December 1991.
At a meeting of CIS Ministers of Culture in Minsk on 27 December 1991, possible claims between the former republics were laid out.
Nonetheless, on 14 February, at the Minsk meeting of CIS heads of government, the presidents signed the now infamous Agreement on the Partition of Culture.
However, a group of assessors under the President of Ukraine and President Kravchuk himself are obviously of a different opinion; they are credited with the authorship of the agreement.
According to Ravik Smirnov, Deputy Chairman of the Supreme Soviet Cultural Commission, the Georgians have already requested the return of knives and weapons from the Kremlin Armoury; Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have asked for the return of carpets, the Armenians lay claim to the seascape painter Ayvazovskiy, while the Ukrainians want the Cossack Blades.
Although even specialists cannot agree on when, where and for whom this unique object was made, Ukraine has decided the issue in favour of Vladimir Monomakh, who was a citizen of Kiev, the Ukrainian Capital.
According to Nikolay Gubyenko, former USSR Minister of Culture, claims have already been lodged or could be lodged for 3,017,128 works of art.
The proposal has evoked both indignation and humour with suggestions as to how art treasures can be divided by their national characteristics.
For example, in order for Ukraine to get hold of Scythian gold, the republic not only has to declare its citizens the direct descendents of the Scythians, but also to prove that the remarkable Scythian objects at present held in the Hermitage were made by natives and not by itinerant ancient Greek craftsmen.
Many have also expressed anticipatory sympathy for the Mayor of St Petersburg, Anatoliy Sobchak, who will have to send the symbol of the city, the monument to Peter I, ‘The Bronze Horseman’, to Paris, home of the sculptor Falconet, while he sends the granite base to Finland.
The cause of their horror is a law being prepared behind the scenes by a parliamentary group, entitled ‘Law on the Activities of Museums and Museum Organisations on the Territory of the Russian Federation’.
A conference attended by representatives from many of Russia's museums assessed the law as yet another example of the amateurism and dilettantism in cultural policy, typical of the new Russian authorities.
The most dangerous clause in the draft is on self-provision for museums, under which any museum can be closed by the authorities if it cannot finance itself.
It is not hard to imagine what could happen to collections like those at the Tretyakov Gallery or the Pushkin Museum of Fine Art, which have been faced with unbelievable problems reconstructing their buildings.
At the end of the conference the participants decided to make a collective appeal to Boris Yeltsin which warns of the extreme seriousness of the situation and of the danger that government funding for Russia's museums could die out.
It transpires that this particular law was discussed with the heads of the Moscow University Zoological Museum and two provincial museums without the Russian Ministry of Culture knowing anything of it.
Academician Dmitriy Likhachev, the highly-respected Chairman of the Russian International Culture Fund said: ‘If such a policy towards culture continues, I will have to apply for citizenship in a foreign country, because it is not worth living in a country whose government has an attitude to culture like ours.
Concern is being expressed in British architectural conservation circles that this may open the floodgates for the network of ‘seek and find’ agents for Japanese buyers to divest Scotland and Wales in particular of many important monuments.
The Japanese demand, said one agent, is ‘insatiable’, particularly when the price of such buildings is miniscule in comparison with first rank Old Masters and the final visual effect more immediate.
The substantial remains of Milton Lockhart, an elegant William Burn house of the 1840s in Lanarkshire were bought by another Japanese consortium and transported to Japan's Hokkaido Island be rebuilt as ‘Santa's Castle’ in ‘Santaland, an absolutely unique[sic] theme park, much better than Disneyland’.
One of Scotland's more interesting ruins, Minto stands for the moment in unspoilt Scottish Borders scenery, which could never be ‘replicated’ in Japan.
Lord Minto commented to The Art Newspaper, ‘Infinite years were spent trying to find potential ways of preserving Minto house, but there was next to no interest whatever.
The prospect of this building being used as an example of the Western style of life in the East is very welcome, in addition to prolonging its life.’
Douglas Connell of the Edinburgh solicitors Dundas and Wilson acting for Lord Minto, comments: ‘The name of the Japanese consortium involved with Minto cannot be disclosed, at their request.
We have been involved in the negotiations leading to Minto House's rebuilding as the focal point of a major leisure development in Japan.
Born in 1903, the son of a painter and brother of an actor, he was one of the first staff of the Courtauld Institute when it was founded in 1933.
The text published here was written by Ralph Edwards, the famous acting Keeper of Furniture and Woodwork at the Victoria and Albert Museum, in the volume of James Byam Shaw's articles, many on Italian eighteenth-century drawings, published by Colnaghi on that occasion.
Mr Byam Shaw also catalogued the paintings (1967) and drawings (1976) collection of his old college, Christ Church, and the Italian drawings of the Lugt Collection in Paris.
Gratitude for the invitation to pay a brief tribute to Jim Byam Shaw on his retirement from active participation in the affairs of his famous firm must be tempered for an old friend by reflection on the difficulties that any such tribute involves.
There is the danger that it will verge on unmixed eulogy, a veritable paean of praise, owing to an embarrassing lack of material for even the mildest fault-finding that might serve to give it an edge.
To inject a little infusion of vinegar, and at the same time stick to the truth, must seem to those who know Jim intimately to be an almost impossible feat.
One could wish that to celebrate this moving occasion (for it is at least a partial farewell) a master of verbal portraiture were at hand; though so elusive is personality, so unlike the impression that the same person may make on different observers, we might well have no great faith in the verisimilitude of the sketch, if produced.
Done in the Jamesian manner, Jim would doubtless find himself credited with psychological subtleties and complexities of which he is quite unaware; but still one might hope that the writer would succeed in suggesting the highly distinctive flavour of his talk, his inimitable way of retailing a diverting anecdote leisurely and with a modicum of circumlocution, from which in due time the point of the story is sure to emerge.
And such a master would certainly take note of the manners and appearance that help in some degree to reveal the character.
He would dwell on the unfailing courtesy and forbearance under provocation (which I myself have had cause to admire); nor would he ignore, as being unworthy of mention, that equally unfailing sartorial elegance (stamped indelibly on the memory if one never saw him again) which makes J.B.S., as it were, a living reproach to the slovenly habits of our inelegant age.
As for his qualities and accomplishments, they cannot be altogether passed over in what is intended to be, however inadequate, a whole-hearted tribute of affection, admiration and regard.
A scholar who wears his wide learning lightly, he is gifted with catholic, fastidious taste and a devotion to art that ‘burns with a pure flame’.
And not least among his endowments is the command of a prose style which makes what he writes a pleasure to read.
The full extent of his generosity to museums and galleries (leaving that to individuals out of account) is known only to those who have, or had, charge of them.
Modest, charitable in his judgments, never censorious, Jim may be thought to carry tolerance almost too far (it is time he was convicted of some venial fault).
Though approaching early middle age, on the outbreak of the last world war he at once abandoned his pursuits for active service and very hard service it was to be.
I have now made the mistake I had resolved, if it were possible, to avoid, and heaped more praises upon him than he will patiently bear.
The most recent outstanding event in Jim's distinguished career was the publication of his definitive catalogue of the collections of Christ Church, Oxford, on which he had been engaged for several years, coinciding with the opening of the new galleries to contain them.
His friends will hope that as an Honorary Fellow he may long maintain his close association with that great foundation; that with greater leisure he will increase his production and that his visits to Colnaghi's will not be rare.
On 16 March Prince Constantijn of the Netherlands and Prince Mikasa of Japan formally opened the Dutch Royal Palace of Huis ten Bosch in Nagasaki, Japan (see p. 1).
Or rather, they opened an exact replica of the Royal home, whose original is still securely on its site just outside The Hague in the Netherlands.
With investment standing currently at Y220,000 million (£952.4 million; $1,657 million), Japan is obviously taking Dutch culture seriously.
Seriously enough that is, to attempt a genetic transplant of a high concentration of Dutchness in the form of a complete theme-city, with canals, windmills, gabled houses and monuments such as the 112 metre high late Gothic Dom-tower of Utrecht, all of them exactly reproduced with an astonishing attention to detail and accuracy.
It is, in the words of its financial adviser Sohei Nakayama of the Industrial Bank of Japan, the project's main financiers, ‘the first time that a corporation has decided to found and manage a whole city’.
Situated on the coastline of Omura Bay near the City of Nagasaki, the town of Huis ten Bosch covers an area of 1.5 million square metres and has risen from the ground in less than eight years.
The planners, a fifteen-member committee combining Japanese and Dutch know-how, selected a site on which they specifically avoided the arbitrary jumbling together of a few replicas.
Instead they have imaginatively reconstructed the imaginary town's historical development over eight centuries: from the time that the first stone buildings would have been erected, through the period of canal-building and land-reclamation in the seventeenth century, to the twentieth century with its emphasis on the development of ‘a comfortable urbanity’, exemplified by turn-of-the-century villas.
The undertaking was the dream of Yoshikuni Kamichika, its president, who, on a visit to Holland had been impressed at the way the Dutch had managed to retain an ecological balance despite their economic growth.
According to Kamichika, Japan has eyes only for its technology while it continues to ignore the increasingly urgent problems posed by unbridled economic growth, such as pollution and cultural estrangement.
Huis ten Bosch is an attempt to combine leisure with a wish to teach a greater respect for the relationship between nature and culture.
One museum houses the illusionistic prints by the Dutch artist Escher, while another concentrates on the cultural exchanges during three centuries between the Dutch and the Japanese.
Set in beautifully reconstructed formal gardens in accordance with the date of the original built in 1645, it houses a museum in which the Netherlands Office for Fine Arts has been contracted to stage several temporary exhibitions of Dutch art.
Since 1937 the Marble Palace, a masterpiece of early Russian classical architecture designed by Antonio Rinaldi between 1768 and 1785, has been occupied by the Lenin Memorial Museum, although it has never had any links with Lenin.
The unique marble hall, which gave its name to the palace, was screened with boards that served as exhibition stands for the photographs, diagrams and models.
The inner courtyard of the Palace was adorned by an armoured car, ‘The enemy of Capitalism’, on a pedestal; it was from this armoured car that Lenin addressed the people of Petrograd on his return from emigration in 1917.
It seems that it was a hasty decision to take away the armoured car, which had become inseparable from the city's history.
The monuments in Moscow to the revolutionary leaders which were taken down after the attempted coup last August have not been placed in the Museum of Totalitarian Art, as was stated.
But if artists and art critics go on nursing their grudge against everything Soviet and do not combine their efforts in order to organise a museum of Soviet culture, which would highlight the Soviet variant of Socialism, this artistic phenomenon will inevitably disappear like the notorious armoured car.
In her article on British arts funding (The Art Newspaper No. 17, March 1992, pp.1 2) Giulia Ajmone Marsan drew attention to a threat from a Tory Minister for Arts to the Arts Council's freedom from political control.
I wonder if any of your readers noticed in The Times of 10 March how Lord Armstrong of Ilminster of the Victoria and Albert Museum's Trustees, quite casually assumed that the independence of our national museums had already been similarly compromised?
Lord Armstrong wrote in his letter: ‘We do not apply the arm's length principle to the national museums and galleries, and we are not on the whole much troubled with allegations of political interference in curatorial or Museological policies…’.
Was the V. & A.'s Chairman trying to tell us something about the government's degree of responsibility for the staff restructuring plans announced by the V. & A.'s Director and rashly endorsed by himself in 1989?
So many allegations of political interference did those restructuring plans prompt that the then Arts Minister, Richard Luce, felt it necessary to reassure the Commons (27 February, 1989) that although he supported the aims of the proposed restructuring, he believed responsibility for management of National Museums should be delegated to chairmen and directors.
By now denying that the arm's-length principle applies to national museums Lord Armstrong makes me wonder how he interpreted his new role when he moved from being Mrs Thatcher's Cabinet Secretary to being her choice as Chairman of the V & A. If he saw himself as dutifully executing government policy over the V & A's restructuring it is understandable that he did not subsequently feel constrained to resign, nor to dismiss his director, when it had become clear to the museum's staff that the essence of the restructuring separation of research from ‘object-management’ had been abandoned as unworkable.
I am not stating that Lord Armstrong was obeying government instructions over this much ridiculed staff restructuring: I am asking if he was.
He owes his staff, fellow trustees, and the public an unambiguous answer as to whether he or the government was responsible for that disastrously mistaken museological policy.
As part of its expanding programme of cultural tourism, the Val d'Oise region has decided to exploit a theme with immense popular appeal: Impressionism.
In the last forty years of the nineteenth century three generations of artists chose to live and work in the area, including Daumier, Daubigny, Corot, Renoir, Cézanne, Berthe Morisot and Pissarro, not to mention Van Gogh, who died at Auvers-sur-Oise in 1890.
Thirty kilometres from Paris, it is this village of 6,000 inhabitants which is to be the scene of an ambitious project in illusionism which seeks to recreate the world of the Impressionists.
Starting in the summer of 1993, it is estimated that it will cost the local authorities some FFr130 million (£13,402,061; $24,123,709).
The focal point is the château of Auvers-sur-Oise, built in the Italianate manner in 1635 for Zannoby Liony, banker to Maria de' Medici and her court, and later transformed into a French-style residence.
The château, together with its gardens, terraces and belvedere, recently restored by the State on the basis of eighteenth-century documents, will provide the setting for the first part of the itinerary, while a new basement building is to accommodate the second stage.
Beguiled by state-of-the-art techniques (of the kind deployed for ‘Cités-Cinés’, which captured the public imagination five years ago), architects and stage designers, experts from the worlds of cinema and advertising, as well as art historians, will create a series of typical settings, which were or could have been subjects for Impressionist paintings.
Visitors will find themselves in a ‘salon de peinture’ and overhear the opinions of detractors and supporters of the Impressionist movement; they will be ushered into a middle-class apartment; will walk the streets of Paris with their long-gone artisan workshops; peep into the fitting-room of a milliner; and cross the Pont de l'Europe, near the Gare Saint-Lazare, where they will recognise the quality of light captured by Monet in his paintings, filtering through the smoke of the locomotives.
Information is conveyed in an entertaining fashion, with brush strokes projected one after the other onto easels dotted about the technological countryside, as a way of illustrating the impressionist technique.
The life and death of Andy Warhol will soon be a minor motion picture…but can we take more than fifteen minutes of it?
Four years ago an enterprising film producer arrived in Hollywood, having just acquired the film rights to a book on the life of Andy Warhol.
There was a rags to riches tale about the son of immigrants who went to parties with the rich and famous, a recognisable name, and even a dead body.
Today, however, things may be changing not only is the Warhol story going to be made into a film and shown on television, but half a dozen projects about modern or contemporary artists are now either being made or planned.
Arne Glimcher, owner of the important Pace Gallery, has just made his directorial debut with ‘The Mambo Kings’, an $18 million adaptation of the novel by the Cuban-American Oscar Hijuelos an extravaganza set in a 1950s New York of Latin supper clubs and parties.
Julian Schnabel, whose work shows in Glimcher's gallery, has written a screenplay based on the life of the late graffiti artist and Warhol protégé, Jean-Michel Basquiat.
Cynics will automatically suggest that with the market at a low point, the art celebrities of the 1980s will naturally gravitate to the obvious locus of celebrity: Tinseltown.
Artists and art businessmen bored with the ease of success in the previous decade might be coming West in search of a greater ‘challenge’, filmmaking.
Also, cash-bloated film and television tycoons formed one important group of new collectors of contemporary art in the Eighties, and since the entertainment business is often the last industry to feel the pinch of a national economic recession, artists may also be retreating to the comfort of their remaining sure sources of income.
If an artist or dealer gets a ‘development deal’ to prepare projects, the studio executive/collector paying his bills is likely to have special access to the artist's future works.
Besides, in a place of militant social-climbing, it doesn't hurt to be seen poolside with recognisable New York artists.
Still, getting ahead in the movie business may turn out to be harder than selling works by the hundreds in the boom market of the late 1980s.
That seems to be the general consensus on Arne Glimcher's ‘Mambo Kings’, a film with all the pretention and incompetence of a self-confident novice.
‘Even if they think it's a piece of trash’, said one dealer who begged not to be identified, ‘they'll all be too afraid to say it’.
‘The money people will have learned their lesson after the Arne Glimcher flop’, said a journalist now working on a script about another art world story.
One artist who seems not to believe that is Julian Schnabel, screenwriter of the Basquiat-inspired scenario entitled ‘Build a fort, set it on fire’.
Schnabel originally intended to collaborate on the film with the Polish director Lech Majewski, who is said to have interviewed around one hundred Basquiat acquaintances and written the screenplay's first draft.
Now, after at least two more rewrites and little interest from European or American sponsors, a new incarnation of the script is promised, this time with Schnabel proposed as the screenwriter and director.
The story, which producer Keith Addis describes as ‘impressionist and authentic’, is opposed by Basquiat's father, who administers Basquiat's estate.
Basquiat père was shocked at the depiction of his son's drug addiction in press accounts of the artist's death, and the elder Basquiat's lawyer says the estate may sue to stop the film, invoking laws in at least thirteen American states that enable an estate to stop the showing of a film because of objections to the exploitation of a physical likeness on the screen.
Gerard Basquiat has successfully kept a Channel 4 documentary about his son from showing on American television, although the producer of the film ‘Shooting Stars’ removed entire sections that had offended the father.
As the Basquiat project founders, others advance, notably ‘Warhol’, which its producer says will be financed by the huge cable firm Home Box Office.
At least two lives of Jackson Pollock are also in the works, as is another script about the collector Joseph Duveen.
The journalist Robert Katz had been trying to interest producers in a film adaptation of his extensive account last year in Esquire magazine of the battle between Willem de Kooning and his daughter.
The journalist is currently writing a screen adaptation of his recent book Naked by the Window, an exclusive account of the death of Ana Mendieta (the wife of sculptor Carl André), who fell from a New York balcony.
Tales of art martyrdom with the deaths of Warhol, Basquiat and Mendieta following a roadmap sketched by van Gogh seem to have elicited the greatest interest in Hollywood.
These also seem to be the stories enticing actors Madonna, for example, is said to be preparing a screen version of the life of another anguished martyr: the tormented Mexican painter Frida Kahlo.
‘All the Vermeers in New York’ by Jon Jost, a film-maker whose sensibility couldn't be farther away from Hollywood, examines the folly of seeking to transfer one's attraction to a work of art toward a real person.
A stockbroker looking at Vermeer's ‘Portrait of a Young Woman at the Met’ suddenly finds himself alongside another woman whose face resembles the painting.
The film includes one sequence where, à la Peter Greenaway, Jost composes a shot intended to reproduce a painting, in this case the multiple white hues of ‘Young Woman with a Water Jug’.
A sub-plot in ‘All the Vermeers’ offers the anguish of a drug-addicted artist, pressed for cash just when the market is turning downward.
His dealer, played by the art dealer Gracie Mansion (who has since closed her gallery), offers a memorable observation: ‘I'm used to shows that sell out before the wine's open’.
One is a new documentary, by the independent filmmaker Bette Jane Cohen, about the Los Angeles architect John Lautner, a former assistant to Frank Lloyd Wright.
Lautner is best known for his pioneering of biomorphic styles, either in roadside, fast-food structures or on hillsides in the western United States.
Instead, Cohen's examination of Lautner's career balances interviews and archival Wright footage with a close, deliberate scrutiny of space, materials and a stunning landscape on the outskirts of Los Angeles, where Lautner built some of his most ambitious projects.
The design team made more than eighty-five films, each in some way conceived as an extension of the design process.
Subjects range from toy trains, to the construction of a chair, to the abstract beauty of water washing down an asphalt schoolyard.
The Films of Charles and Ray Eames now available from Pyramid Film and Video in Santa Monica, California are sure to move beyond the small audience which already recognised them as masterpieces.
Despite the damning report submitted in January by specialists from the Conseil Supérieur des Bibliothèques concerning the future Bibliothèque de France the project now seems set to go ahead.
After studying the report, which reiterated the multitude of reservations expressed over the last few months and went on to accuse architect Dominique Perrault of having sacrificed functionalism for the sake of aesthetics, President Mitterrand accepted Perrault's design, making only the most cosmetic of changes to appease the powerful lobby against the building.
Mitterrand ordered that the height of the four notorious L-shaped towers be reduced by 23 feet to 259 feet (losing two floors) and that more of the most valuable books be stored underground.
The last recommendation was seized upon by critics who calculate that storing the most frequently-used books high up in the four towers will create a considerable time delay in transporting them down to the reading areas.
While the saga of Très Grande Bibliothèque runs on, plans for a national art library linked to the transfer of the Bibliothèque National's volumes to the controversial new Tolbiac site are beginning to take shape.
Emmanuel Leroy Ladurie, administrator of the Bibliothèque Nationale, has been appointed chairman of an association set up to consider the administrative problems and to determine the aims and contents of the long awaited library, and who the users will be.
The other members are Professor Michel Meslin, president of the Université de Paris IV, who manages the Doucet fund, an essential part of the new institution; the Rector of Paris's universities; and representatives of the Musées Nationaux, the Délégation des Arts Plastiques and the Direction des Bibliothèques Universitaires.
Doucet, a tailor, patron and collector, who bought Picasso's ‘Demoiselles d'Avignon’ in 1921, presented his library to the State in 1917.
Alongside this initiative, an international committee will preside over the fate of the whole Bibliothèque Nationale des Arts (of which the Doucet collection will form one part).
This will bring together collections from a variety of sources although specialist departments of the Bibliothèque Nationale such as prints and photographs, manuscripts, coins and medals, maps and music, will remain in rue de Richelieu.
They will be joined by the former collection of books on architecture from the libraries of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts and the Musées de France at present in the Louvre.
The Bibliothèque's spokesman is the linguist Pierre Encrevé, supported by Françoise Cachin, director of the Musée d'Orsay, Pierre Rosenberg, General Curator of the Département des Peintures at the Louvre, and many other leading figures from the academic world including Yves Alain Bois of the University of Harvard, Professor Pressouyre of the Université de Paris I, Professor Francis Haskell from Oxford, Professor Castelnuovo of Pisa, Hubert Damish, William Rubin and Jean Starobinskia.
The prospect of1993 and the abolition of customs controls between EC countries has spurred the Italian State to set itself the awe-inspiring task of cataloguing a further two million items of its national heritage within two years in execution of its duty to ‘care for Italy's landscape, history and cultural heritage’(to quote the Constitution).
Prior to this it was carried out by the Directorship-general of Fine Arts, Academies and Libraries, part of the Ministry of Education.
The work of cataloguing goes back to the early years of Italian unification in the late nineteenth century when the first photographs were taken of archaeological sites and of celebrated pictures and monuments.
The real beginnings, however, were made in 1969 when a central cataloguing institute was set up in Rome, which became the present Istituto centrale per il catalogo e la documentazione (ICCD) when the Minstero per i Beni Culturali was founded.
The ICCD, led by Professor Oreste Ferrari, greatly enhanced the depth and seriousness of cataloguing, which now functions both as a scholarly enterprise and as a means of protecting the country's heritage in case of damage (by war, vandalism, earthquake and other natural disasters); decay (by neglect or pollution); and loss (by theft or illegal export).
It is obvious how much better equipped the relevant authorities will be to prevent illegal exports or to retrieve a work of art thought to have been illegally exported when armed with a full description and photographs which enable title to be firmly established.
All sectors of ownership are being taken into account: the State; local authorities; the church (excluding the Vatican but including objects held in the churches and convents of the different religious orders); and private individuals (obviously only if the owners have let the State know what they possess).
The work of cataloguing has been undertaken in the main by the various Soprintendenze (regional administrations of the patrimony), of which there are seventy-one, but also by other institutions using young qualified staff.
In 1985 there were 791 cataloguers, two administrators and 169 photographers; in order to carry out the current drive the number of employees has been set at 4,463.
This new effort (largely pre-cataloguing), which aims to produce about two million entries in two years, will be carried out by Soprintendenze staff and members of universities and specialist institutions which have entered into agreements with the Ministry and which will directly recruit their own staff.
We asked Maria Luisa Polichetti, Director of the Institute responsible for cataloguing Italy's cultural patrimony, to explain the background to the vast project
In your opinion, is there any point in carrying out a census to find out how many paintings, sculptures, and historic buildings there are in Italy?
Caravaggio's ‘Conversion of St Paul’ is one thing in the church of San Luigi dei Francesi, Rome; hung in a museum, it would be quite another.
The person gathering the data would first have to register the churches; then they would have to go back and record the sculptures kept in each; it would take another visit to catalogue the paintings; another for the liturgical vestments, and so on.
We do not have a complete inventory, partly because it is hard to keep up with the many new arrivals, partly because we are always short-staffed.
As we obtain the funds, we will gradually be able to build up further records: two million, five million, ten million.
Instead of giving priority to private enterprise, as it has done until now, the government should be channelling funds to the Soprintendenze, so that they can act effectively, working together with the universities, the regions, the church authorities, and research institutes active in this field.
Although normally only architects qualify for the RIBA's Gold Medal (considered the world's most prestigious award for architecture), this year it has gone to an Irish structural engineer, the fifty-six year old Peter Rice.
Rice is known for his collaboration on the structure of some of the most important buildings world-wide, including the Centre Pompidou, Paris, the Sydney Opera House, the new Lloyd's building, London, and the Menil Museum, Houston.
Other works by him include the canopy under the Grande Arche de la Défense and the glass walls of the Science Museum at La Villette, both in Paris and the Pavilion of the Future, at Expo '92, Seville.
His passionate belief that technology is a tool to be used with imagination for the benefit of mankind has inspired a generation of designers of buildings of all disciplines’.
The RIBA President, Richard MacCormac says, ‘Rice's work lies firmly in the tradition of the great Victorian engineers [combining]practicality with great beauty’.
In the mid eighteenth century the house was transformed by its owner William Constable who commissioned Chippendale furniture and neo-classical interiors by Thomas Lightoler.
In an arrangement with the house's present owner, John Chichester Constable, the house and its remarkable contents will pass to a newly-founded charity, the Burton Constable Foundation.
The Trustees of the charity will include Christopher Gilbert, Director of Leeds City Art Gallery, Anthony Wells Cole, Principal Keeper of the Gallery and Lord Downe, Trustee of the National Museum of Science and Industry, reflecting the importance of the house's contents, in particular its collection of scientific instruments, books, nineteenth-century French furniture and the family archive.
The archive is held by the County Archive Office at Beverly and contains a wealth of information on the house's contents including designs, drawings and receipts.
Georgina Naylor of the National Heritage Memorial Fund explained that securing the house under the charity was a cheaper solution than placing it with the National Trust and also allowed a greater individuality.
The contents will be owned and cared for by Leeds City Art Gallery who will undertake a programme of cataloguing and aim to make the collection more widely known.
As part of the £11.5 million in state aid pledged last year to Britain's cathedrals, £5.4 million in grants for 1992–94 were announced by Lord Montagu of Beaulieu on 22 March (see The Art Newspaper No. 13, December 1991, p.2).
The Chairman of English Heritage noted that, together with the £2 million awarded last year, the present sum will help maintain the buildings for posterity,(although it is estimated that in all £185 million is needed for essential repairs over the next decade).
The two largest beneficiaries are Salisbury which will receive £870,000 over the next three years and Ely, which gets £690,000.
Salisbury will use the money to repair stonework, lead roofs and window glazing while Ely will put it towards work on the south-west transept, the archive of drawings, stonework cleaning and structural strengthening.
The largest grant for this year goes to Liverpool Roman Catholic Cathedral which receives £500,000, needed for structural repairs and water-proofing of the 1930 Lutyens crypt.
A great deal has been said and written over the past two years about East European grandees being given back their property, but reality lags behind the talk.
Hungary and Czechoslovakia suffered relatively little war-damage, and Communism was imposed after hostilities had ceased and normal life had resumed.
They were forbidden by law to return to within thirty kilometres of their estates, and their houses were turned into the offices of state farms, rest homes for party bosses or factory workers, schools, mad-houses, orphanages or just left to crumble.
To reverse this process at a stroke would be impossible, and every compromise suggested so far has foundered in a fearful bog of legal and financial complications.
The issue of ‘reprivatisation’, as it is quaintly termed, is also politically sensitive, and the Polish Sejm has been throwing it back and forth across the Chamber like a hot potato.
The picture is only a little brighter when it comes to objects, thanks to the intelligence of those in the museum world who support the ambitious and often altruistic plans of the owners.
Count Tarnowski has managed to recover ownership of pictures (the tail-end of the collection that once contained both the Frick's ‘Polish Rider’ and the Met's ‘Perseus’by Canova) appropriated by the National Museum in Warsaw in 1945, and intends to display them at his old country house of Dzikow.
Anna Wolska, heiress to the palace of Wilanow outside Warsaw, and the Potocki and Branicki collections in it, has offered to set it up as a public institution.
Count Edward Raczynski, the distinguished centenarian ex-President of Poland in exile living in London, has created a foundation whose aim is to recover as much of his property as possible and return it to his country house of Rogalin outside Poznan.
The director of the National Museum in Poznan, Professor Konstanty Kalinowski, has agreed to return all his pictures and furniture held by the museum.
Kalinowski is equally accommodating with Prince Adam Czartoryski, who has set up a foundation to restore to glory the castle of Goluchow.
But all these agreements remain little more than pious hopes, even when, as in the case of Anna Wolska, President Walesa himself attempted to translate them into action.
The Zamoyski family's attempts to reactivate a foundation they set up in the 1920s at Kornik, a Scottish-baronial monstrosity housing a priceless library of early illuminated manuscripts and incunabula, are being thwarted by the Polish Academy of Learning, which swallowed it up in 1945.
Prince Jan Lubomirski, who managed to buy his castle of Kruszyna back from the local council for a symbolic zloty (they refused Barbara Johnson's offer of millions in a fine gesture of patriarchal loyalty), cannot get the Lodz Museum to return the set of family portraits removed from it, even though none of them has ever been exhibited since being confiscated.
The castle and grounds, which include the greatest arboretum in Poland, at present belong to the colossal state forestry authority, while the collections have been dispersed not only to Poznan, but also to Warsaw, whose National Museum is sitting on the remains of the unique collection of Etruscan and Greek vases (some are in Moscow, while others were looted by the Germans, along with all the Limoges enamels, some of which regularly turn up in Western collections).
But Prince Adam has a certain amount of clout, as he has recently brought off a resounding coup and made a grand gesture.
The museum, set up in the 1780s by his great-great-great-grandmother Izabela, was the first didactically historical museum in Europe (both the famous ‘Lady with an Ermine’ by Leonardo that starred in the National Gallery of Washington's recent ‘Circa 1492’exhibition and the remarkable Rembrandt landscape were collected for their historical associations rather than their artistic merit).
Prince Adam promptly donated the entire museum to a foundation which he set up for the purpose, to which he also ceded all his rights to his pre-war estates and property.
How much of these the foundation will manage to recover is an open question, but at least the collection is now safe (there have been several attempts in the past to remove its best paintings to other museums).
It is also now an independent body, and can begin to look for new ways to finance itself and improve its amenities.
A major part in setting up the Czartoryski Foundation, and in most of the other similar attempts, has been played by an eminence grise familiar to Western art circles, namely the London art dealer Andrew Ciechanowiecki.
He himself made history when, in 1984, he donated over 1,200 pictures and objects to a foundation he established in Warsaw the first such institution since the war.
Gardeners from the National Trust at Petworth Park, Sussex, have used Capability Brown's original designs to plant a four-acre plot for which Brown had sketched out a plan in 1750 but never carried out.
The sketch for the Upper Pond, part of Brown's great natural parkland at Petworth, was discovered in the Petworth archives some years ago but the backlog of work on the estate and the disastrous storm of 1987 which destroyed thousands of trees delayed plans to carry out the design.
Now, however, more than 3,300 trees including birch, grey poplars, white and crack willow and horse chestnut all mentioned in Brown's notes have been planted at the upper end of the lake.
The operation has been partly funded by a grant of £7,000 ($12,000) from the Countryside Commission and the Trust plans to raise the rest by appeal.
Unesco, in association with the Fundación de La Caixa and the photographic agency Gamma, has announced the setting up of ‘Patrimonio 2001’.
Under the scheme natural and historic sites considered by Unesco to be ‘the patrimony of humanity’ will be photographed and documented with the aim of building up a reference library of 40,000 photographs and relevant documentation which will be available to researchers.
The project is headed by the Director General of Unesco, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Juan Antonio Samaranch, President of Caixabank and Luìs Monreal, Director of the Fundación de la Caixa and formerly a Unesco official.
Kurt Forster, for the last eight years Director of the Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities at Santa Monica, has resigned to accept the Chair in the History of Art and Architecture at Zurich's Federal Polytechnic.
It is no secret that Forster has not been popular, his vigorous preference for a radical brand of abstract cultural history being considered almost hostile to the Museum's more object-based aims.
On the other hand, John Walsh, Director of the J. Paul Getty Museum, is the hot tip to follow Carter Brown as the head of the National Gallery of Washington, with ‘Rusty’ Powell, Director of the Los Angeles County Museum, a close second.
Both are well known to the veteran Franklin D. Murphy, who is not only Chairman of the Trustees of the National Gallery, but a Trustee of LACMA and, until recently, of the Getty Trust (see The Art Newspaper No. 4, January 1991, Vernissage section).
In December 1991, the Danish art magazine Pist Protta published a list of the one hundred Danish artists who had earned most money in 1990.
The staff of both periodicals were approached by many artists, some of whom were on the list and many more who were not.
Reasonably enough, there were those on the list who were angry because they had been made liable to investigation by the tax authorities.
Kunstavisen reports in its March/April number that not only did many artists protest because they were not on the list but one contacted them to say that he had lost the possibility of a big exhibition because he had not been included.
Some who were on the list contested their placing and felt ‘it was unreasonable that they had lost out in the advertisement race’.
The list had included most of the significant contemporary Danish artists and this behaviour apparently demonstrates, as Kunstavisen remarks, ‘that artists today are more preoccupied by money than by the art they are making’.
A dealer who refused to pay Sotheby's after he had bought a work by the artist Marc Chagall at auction last year, has been ordered by a court in Amsterdam to pay the auction house DFl. 27,000 (£8,400; $14,700).
The dealer refused to pay on account of the fact that the work ‘Moses and the Angel’ was not accompanied by a certificate of authenticity from the Comité Marc Chagall.
Apparently the committee had refused to give such a certificate because the graphic work had been presented by Chagall as a gift to friends.
The artist's widow did not think it appropriate that the work should have ended up on the commercial circuit and has therefore refused to sign the document.
Instead they had assured the purchaser that the papers were in order, which he took to imply that the necessary certificate would be present.
At the time of writing, the founding session of the Freie Akademie der Künste in Leipzig (the Free Academy of the Arts) is being planned for some time in May.
Its nine founding members writers, composers and musicians, an art dealer, an art historian and the painter, Hartwig Ebersbach are planning to get the Akademie started over the next two years.
The budding Academy sees itself as an alternative to established institutions such as Berlin's Akademie der Künste whose ongoing merger of the West and East branches, beset by political wrangling, has alienated many artists (see The Art Newspaper No.17, April 1992, p.3).
The crossing of borders artistic, national, and generational is one of the founders' main intentions, and the projects currently being planned are all multi-media.
The list of around forty possible members includes Mauricio Kagel, Andrzej Wajda, and Göyrgi Ligeti (the latter having recently resigned his membership of the Berlin Akademie).
Names of important painters like Werner Tübke and Walter Mattheuer are missing in order to avoid controversy about the inclusion of former DDR ‘state-artists’; they are likely to join later.
It starts with private capital of around DM150,000 (£53,500; $93,200) and further funds will have to be raised to reach the goal of a DM0.5 million (£178,500; $310,700) annual budget.
An exhibition of thirty-eight sculptures from all stages of Anthony Caro's career opens in the remarkable context of Trajan's Markets in Rome towards the end of this month (20 May-20 August).
The most important display of his art to be mounted since the Museum of Modern Art's large exhibition in New York in 1975, and the Serpentine Gallery's survey of 1984, it consolidates the sculptor's recent interest in the achievements of ancient civilisations sparked by a visit to Greece in 1985, and tests his abstract interpretations of classical and Renaissance art against the authenticity of Imperial Roman architecture.
Exactly twenty years after their collaboration for that extraordinary presentation of Henry Moore in Florence, Caro's exhibition reunites the powerful curatorial vision of Professor Giovanni Carandente with the British Council.
Discussions between the artist and Carandente (who pioneered the use of historic or archaeological monuments for the exhibition of contemporary art through his work at Spoleto with David Smith, Stephen Cox and other artists), were launched several years ago, and other sites, including the Baths of Caracalla, where Rome's summer opera programme takes place, were considered.
Comprising three tiers of small chambers rising up the steep slopes of the Quirinal Hill, the markets were completed by Emperor Trajan in 112 AD and formed the commercial centre of ancient Rome.
With the adjoining terraces, they have never previously been used for an art exhibition, although Californian conceptual artist, Peter Erskine, placed a helioscope at the centre of his recent installation, ‘Secrets of the Sun’(to 10 May).
Caro has taken personal responsibility for the selection of the sculptures which have been chosen to complement the markets' strong architectural identity.
For that reason, he has omitted his more fragile or delicate works in favour of robustness, playing with various permutations in a 1:20 model built for him by the Richard Rogers Partnership.
His solution places ‘After Olympia’, the great rusted steel frieze inspired by Greek pediment sculpture, at the heart of the exhibition in the main hall of the markets, while other works, drawn from an international list of collections, spread through corridors, terraces and chambers on two levels.
Among the painted sculptures from the first decade of his activity as an abstract artist are ‘Midday’(1960, MOMA, New York),), ‘Prairie’(1967, NGA, Washington) and ‘Early One Morning’(1962) which the Tate Gallery was persuaded to loan only after Caro had agreed to supervise its restoration at the end of the exhibition.
Important examples of his work with the end cuts of hot rolled steel include ‘Durham Purse’(1973, MFA, Boston) and ‘Toronto Flats’(1974, Mirvish, Toronto).
From his recent production the exhibition will feature ‘Moroccans’(1984–87, Hakone Open Air Museum, Japan), several table pieces including ‘The Triumph of Caesar’(1987, Cabot, Boston), his abstract dialogue with Mantegna, and ‘Child's Tower Room’(1984, Annely Juda), built in Japanese oak for an exhibition at Liberty's department store and the prototype for his exercises in sculpitecture.
An international edition of the catalogue, with dual language texts in English and Italian, will be published by Fabri several weeks after the exhibition opens (see also p. 15).
It will contain essays by Michael Fried and Karen Wilkin and be illustrated by new photographs showing Caro's sculpture in the context of Trajan's Markets.
With attendance figures at around 2,500 per day (higher than those for Frans Hals and the Bührle Collection), the Royal Academy's ‘Mantegna’(closed 5 April) was a notable success.
The show has aroused considerable scholarly debate over all the fields of the artist's activities and the closing symposium in London generated lively discussion on questions of attribution and dating.
Doubts were expressed about the authorship of the early ‘St Jerome in the Wilderness’ from São Paulo although the poor condition of the surface may account for some of the picture's awkwardness.
The beautiful ‘Descent into Limbo’ from the collection of Mrs Barbara Johnson has been dated by the Metropolitan's Keith Christiansen (curator of the paintings section) to around 1492, but in the opinion of a number of scholars including David Landau, the exhibition's organiser, there are strong stylistic arguments for placing it much earlier in the artist's oeuvre.
It might then be the ‘painting of Limbo’ which Mantegna is recorded as working on for Ludovico Gonzaga in a document of 1468.
Other proposals made by Konrad Oberhuber of the Albertina, Vienna, include attributing all the grisaille paintings in the exhibition to Mantegna's own hand rather than dividing them between the master and his workshop, and assigning the magnificent ‘The Man of Sorrows with two Angels’ from Copenhagen one of the show's great revelations to a much earlier dating than the 1500 given it by Christiansen and earlier scholars.
Oberhuber also defended the traditional attribution to Mantegna of the miniature-like ‘Judith with the Head of Holofernes’ from Washington, marked down in the catalogue as ‘After Mantegna’; an alternative suggestion is the young Giulio Campagnola, recently proposed by David Landau.
There was a notable disagreement between the two curators of the prints section of the exhibition David Landau and Suzanne Boorsch of the Metropolitan Museum, New York over which prints were by the artist's own hand and which were executed after his designs.
Landau and Boorsch agreed to differ in the catalogue to the extent that the former proposed adding four further prints to the canon of seven generally accepted autograph works while Ms Boorsch felt strongly that none of them was by his hand.
Further complications raised at the symposiumover whether Mantegna or Antonio Pollaiuolo takes precedence in these crucial early years of printmaking threatened to take over the proceedings until halted by the discussion's Chairwoman, Caroline Elam, Editor of the Burlington Magazine.
Print enthusiasts will have to wait for the publication of David Landau and Peter Parshall's forthcoming book on Renaissance printmaking to be published by Yale University Press next year for a full discussion of such matters.
Meanwhile the exhibition moves to New York with a slightly re-vamped catalogue (more colour illustrations) and a new hanging under the direction of Christiansen and Suzanne Boorsch.
The radiance of jade and the crystal clarity of water are the qualities mentioned by Xu Jing, Chinese ambassador to Korea in the twelfth century, in describing to his emperor the stoneware produced in that country.
The world's biggest collection of Korean ceramics over 1,000 pieces spanning the tenth to nineteenth centuries was formed from 1951 by the Japanese industrialist Eiichi Ataka.
In 1975 it was acquired by the Sumitomo Group following Ataka's bankruptcy and donated to the city of Osaka, together with the money to build what was to become the Museum of Oriental Ceramics.
Major items from the collection have now been chosen to form a travelling exhibition, which moves to the Metropolitan Museum in New York from 20 May (until 12 July) after shows at San Francisco's Asian Art Museum and the Art Institute of Chicago.
While they all concentrated on paintings, the exhibition ‘Entartete Bildhauer’ at the Westfälisches Landesmuseum is exclusively devoted to the sculptors who suffered from this verdict.
Their development from the turn of the century until around 1945 is traced in the show which has been put together by Christian Tümpel and a group of his art history students at the University of Nijmegen.
They nearly all started out in Paris or were influenced by Paris artists, taking Rodin, Bourdelle and Maillol as their role models.
Otto Freundlich, whose powerful Cubist ‘Neuer Mensch’ was used as the cover illustration for the catalogue of the Nazi show, was resident in Paris from the mid-Twenties.
The survey is most interesting in contrasting works from before and during the Nazi period by sculptors whose development was less consistent than Freundlich's.
Thus Belling's ‘Dreiklang’, the first German abstract sculpture, derided by the Nazis, can be seen next to his portrait of the boxer Max Schmeling, made ten years later and included in the official ‘Große Deutsche Kunstausstellung’.
Although much of their classicising work in bronze produced after 1933 was liked and acquired by the regime, even these far from rebellious artists came at times under suspicion of being ‘degenerate’.
Kolbe, like Belling, continued to be awarded public commissions after 1945 the former with the unobjectionable mild classicism of his female nudes, the latter by reverting to his abstract beginnings.
The exhibition is in Münster until 31 May and subsequently at the Wilhelm-Lehmbruck Museum in Duisburg (28 June to 9 August) and Mannheim.
For one week only in the middle of this month (8–13 May), the Contemporary Art Society is exhibiting its recent acquisitions at the Camden Arts Centre before distributing them around museums in this country.
The acquisitions cover a four-year period until 1991 and fall into three categories: paintings and works on paper, including graphics, sculpture and crafts.
The Henry Moore Foundation contributes an annual budget of £40,000 for the purchase of sculpture, and guest buyers choosing pictures and prints are provided with a similar sum raised from the profits of the Society's popular art market, from fees paid for advice given to corporate collectors, and from membership subscriptions.
Among more than 200 works of art, notable acquisitions include a set of black granite ‘Tanmatras’ by Stephen Cox, a wall sculpture by Antony Gormley, a slate obelisk by Ian Hamilton Finlay, a cabinet of sea shells by Damien Hirst, Lisa Milroy's ‘Lightbulbs’and abstract paintings by Ian Davenport, Nicholas May, Fiona Rae and Adam Lowe.
A half century after becoming a trustee of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, retailer and philanthropist Bruce B. Dayton (b. 1918) is still active in the museum's affairs.
He is being honoured by an exhibition assembling the more than 300 paintings, sculptures and decorative artworks he has donated or promised over the years.
Mr Dayton has given the Institute many of its finest oils, by Manet (‘The Smoker’, 1866), Matisse (‘Pensées de Pascal’, 1924), Nicolas Mignard (‘Venus and Adonis’, circa 1650) and van Goyen (a riverscape at Utrecht, 1648), along with works by Kandinsky, Kirchner, Bonnard and Mondrian.
The largest single category of objects contains ninety-one limited edition artists' books illustrated by Bonnard, Matisse, Picasso, Maillol, Miró and others.
The Minneapolis native joined the board at twenty-three, as he was about to embark on a career in the family's department store chain.
His art collection began with a Rembrandt etching received as a college graduation gift, and expanded generously to serve the needs of the MIA.
Though personal taste tends toward late nineteenth- and twentieth-century European art, his gifts many of which went directly into the galleries have ranged from Egyptian and Roman antiquities and Tiffany glass, to Ming armchairs, an eighteenth-century Italian chest, and a Native American painted elk hide.
Mr Dayton currently co-chairs a committee seeking to raise $50 million for endowment a far cry from the $30,000 annual drives he remembers leading in the 1940s!
The first substantial and historically comprehensive exhibition of Australian art to travel to Japan will go on display at the Tokyo National Museum of Western Art until 28 June and travel to the National Museum of Modern Art in Kyoto from 14 July to 6 September.
The selection, comprising some eighty oil paintings and fifty watercolours, illustrates 200 years of Australian painting from the earliest Colonial art to contemporary Aboriginal work.
The Art Gallery of New South Wales is the organising gallery in Australia; the principal Japanese sponsor is the Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper, a regular organiser and supporter of major art exhibitions in Japan.
An exhibition to mark the restoration of Hieronymous Bosch's paintings in the Doge's Palace, Venice, opens on 6 May (until 10 August).
Works by Bosch from the Palace collection to be exhibited include ‘The Temptations of Saints Jerome, Anthony and Egidius’, ‘Paradise’, the Saint Liberata triptych and ‘The Assumption of the Blessed’ as well as works by Metsys.
Flemish paintings by Dieric Bouts and others have been lent by the Museo Correr and the exhibition is completed by a selection of around twenty prints after Bosch loaned from museums in Italy and elsewhere.
The Musée d'Art Contemporain, Lyon, and the Museum Sztuki, Lodz, Poland (founded 1931), are arranging a sizeable exchange of contemporary works videos and installations.
The Sztuki will be sending more than 700 pieces and more than twenty hours of video as well as eight performance artists who will show their installations at the Espace Lyonnaise d'Art Contemporain.
Two separate bi-lingual catalogues have been produced and the project is curated by Jaromir Jedlinski, Director of the Museum Sztuki and M. Thierry Raspail, Director of the Musée d'Art Contemporain.
The largest-ever retrospective exhibition devoted to the photography of Yousuf Karsh runs until 14 June at the McMichael Canadian Art Collection, Kleinburg, Ontario.
The exhibition is organised and circulated by the National Gallery of Canada in collaboration with the National Archives of Canada and includes more than 190 photographs.
The exhibition of Robert Rauschenberg's early work reaches the conclusion of its four-city, fifteen-month tour when it opens at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the middle of this month (14 May-2 August).
Previously shown at Washington's Corcoran Gallery, where the tour was launched almost exactly forty years after his first one-person exhibition held at the Betty Parsons Gallery in 1951; at the Menil Foundation in Houston and at Chicago's Museum of Contemporary Art, ‘Robert Rauschenberg: The Early 1950s’ concentrates upon the artist's activity between 1949, when he enrolled at Black Mountain College after a short apprenticeship in Paris, and 1954, when he embarked upon the most important series of works of his career, the combine paintings and constructions.
In this respect, San Francisco's version of the exhibition gains from the proximity of ‘Collection’, that important triptych of paint and collaged material belonging to the museum, in which Rauschenberg rehearsed the full range of the combined techniques which he would employ for the next ten years.
Twenty-five works including one blueprint monotype, two white paintings, four black paintings, a red painting, the ‘Automobile Tyre Print’, a collaboration with John Cage, and the celebrated ‘Erased de Kooning Drawing’ prefaced the artist's major touring retrospective organised by the Smithsonian Institute in 1976.
Walter Hopps, the exhibition's curator, and previously responsible for the Smithsonian retrospective, has performed a salvage job worthy of the artist's legendary search for materials on the streets of his neighbourhood.
In the course of his research, he has discovered missing works and found documentary photographs recording paintings and objects which have been lost or destroyed.
From this evidence, he calculates that Rauschenberg may have produced as many as 300 works of art during this five-year period, of which one-half may have survived.
Among them are the four remaining pictures shown by Betty Parsons, whose checklist notes seventeen works, the complete set of five White Paintings conceived in 1951 and recreated, under Rauschenberg's instructions, by Brice Marden in 1968, twelve Black Paintings, three gold leaf paintings, fifteen collages created in Rome and North Africa in the last months of 1952, and thirteen box sculptures incorporating stones, thorns, an insect and other material.
Rauschenberg's fertile imagination oscillates among styles and techniques, and only the Black and Red Paintings, with their richly textured surfaces of paint and newspaper, look properly accomplished.
But the seeds of the artist's powerful progress in the great decade from 1954 can be traced in other and lesser works throughout the exhibition.
‘The most terribly overlooked architect of the twentieth century’, according to Sherri Geldin of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, Louis Kahn's work drew crowds of 1,200 a day in Paris and the exhibition received rave reviews when it opened.
The exhibition transferred to the Centre George Pompidou following the considerable success of its première in Philadelphia, and opens at MOMA in New York on 14 June (until 18 August).
Organised by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, the $2 million exhibition, together with the weighty catalogue that accompanies it, is considered by the curators to represent the definitive scholarly study into the work of ‘the most important American architect of the mid-twentieth century’.
Robert Geddes, former Dean of Architecture at Princeton, claims that ‘much of the evolution of modern architecture since the 1950s came about because Louis Kahn questioned the tradition of the international style’.
Turning his back on the lightness and open planning characteristic of international style architecture, Kahn was concerned with what he called ‘going back to zero’ emphasising monumentality, weight and primitive classical forms.
The answer according to Ms Geldin, the exhibition's associate director, is that his work lies chiefly outside major metropolitan areas, much of it in his native Pennsylvania.
And yet his best known pieces the Yale University Art Gallery (1951–53); the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California (1959–65); the capital complex for Dhaka, Bangladesh (1962–83); and the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (1966–72) are in distinctly urban settings.
More convincing is the argument that Kahn lacked the genius for self-promotion of other great architects like Frank Lloyd Wright and Philip Johnson.
Critics are seeing this new interest in Kahn as indicative of a public dislike for the superficialities of Post Modern architecture.
After the exhibition of Canova's work and related sculpture organised by the Fondazione Memmo at Palazzo Ruspoli in Rome, the nucleus of the show, including ten statues from the Hermitage, has moved to Venice and been greatly added to by further loans.
This amplification, orchestrated by Giuseppe Pavanello and Giandomenico Romanelli, has produced an extraordinary opportunity to see Canova's work as a sculptor in the round.
The sixty-four drawings and nineteen bozzetti and models lead up to the sculptures themselves forty-seven in all in both first and second versions.
The largest gathering previously seen was at the 1972 Neo-classical exhibition held at the V&A in London, organised by Mario Praz and Hugh Honour, which had managed to assemble fourteen sculptures.
The visitor now has a unique chance to see these works together, as well as tracing the development of an idea from Canova's initial pencil sketch to the bozzetto or model and then through to the finished marble and second version of the marble.
The Hermitage's marble version of ‘Orpheus’ can be compared with the stone version in Venice and the ‘Venus’from Palazzo Pitti in Florence can be seen with the second version from Munich.
The Munich version was finished first and the second ‘Venus’, destined for Florence, was deliberately improved on by Canova, which makes this a key point of comparison for scholars who have debated whether later versions of the marble compositions were not in fact merely copies.
The loans from the Hermitage of the ‘Penitent Magdalene’, ‘Hebe’, and ‘Standing Cupid and Psyche’ can all be compared with other versions of the statues from, respectively, Genoa, Forlí and Paris, although this last work, from the Louvre, is of a different composition, showing the two lovers reclining in an embrace.
Rarely seen works such as the very beautiful ‘Venus and Adonis’ from Geneva and the bust of Cicognara from the cemetery in Ferrara (one of Canova's very last works) form part of the extraordinary range of loans assembled.
Other exceptional works are the head of ‘Helen’ from the private collection in Palazzo Albrizzi, Venice and the over life-size ‘Boxers’from the Vatican.
Damaged by fire ten years ago and closed ever since they have been restored especially for the exhibition the Neo-classical architecture and decorative elements making an ideal setting for Canova's works.
The Museo Correr's own permanent collection of Canova is displayed in the last of the series of rooms, the ballroom, where it is hoped that it can remain on permanent show.
An additional dimension to the exhibition is provided by the collection remaining at Possagno where Canova's cast collection and Temple (newly restored) can be visited, as well as the display of bozzetti and other works by the sculptor.
The spirit of innovation in silver design throughout Europe in the latter part of the nineteenth and early years of twentieth century is celebrated in a stylish exhibition entitled ‘Silver of a new Era: International Highlights of Precious Metalware from 1880–1940’ which opened at the Museum Boymans van Beuningen, Rotterdam and is now at the Museum voor Sierkunst, Ghent (until 27 July).
The idea for an exhibition of such size around 250 exhibits from seven European countries was devised some years ago by the Dutch silver specialist Mrs A. Krekel-Aalberse with R. J. Willink of the Netherlands Office for Fine Arts and Dr J. ter Molen of the Boymans.
Speaking to The Art Newspaper Mr Turner noted that no such exhibition on silver of this period had been held before, reflecting the growing academic standing of the study of decorative arts in general, and silver in particular .
He noted a marked increase in exhibitions devoted to modern decorative arts: in 1995 the Art Institute of Chicago, for example, will be presenting a show on twentieth-century British silversmiths whilst the current series of design exhibitions at the Bauhaus Archive has included one on metalwork.
The exhibits are drawn from private collections with some previously unseen items, and public holdings including the Goldsmiths' Company who have lent ten pieces.
Other highlights include part of a ninety-seven-piece dining service by the Dutch designer Jan Eisenloeffel presented by the City of Amsterdam to Queen Wilhelmina on her marriage in 1901.
The Queen disliked the service, which was hidden away and only re-emerged in the early 1980s when included in a Dutch television programme on royal gifts.
The exhibition is accompanied by a catalogue which includes introductory essays to the silver of each country and catalogue details with a photograph of every item.
The Hermitage has confirmed that June is the date for showing the drawings and watercolours removed from the Kunsthalle in Bremen in 1945.
Employees at Moscow's Schchusev Architectural History Museum have scotched rumours that twenty pages from the collection have been sold to Germany.
A committee of experts has been set up by the Russian Ministry of Culture to look into the problem of such articles within its borders.
More and more museums, archives and libraries are becoming independent and taking charge of their own stocks, which includes any booty they may contain.
In Yamshchikov's view the Hamburg sheet music library, which has lain for forty-five years in one of St Petersburg's special storage areas, could be used for barter.
The June exhibition may be so successful that the Hermitage would consider showing some of its own trophy collection alongside the one from Bremen.
A selection of the Corporation of London's finest paintings, together with some of its treasures, will form a major exhibition entitled ‘The Celebrated City: Treasures from the Collections of the City of London’(28 May to 19 July).
The role of the Corporation as art patron is one of the exhibition's themes, and works on show include paintings acquired by Alderman John Boydell (a print publisher in his own right) in the late eighteenth century; a selection of nineteenth century paintings from the donation made by Charles Gassiot in 1902; Landseer's ‘The First Leap’(1829); Alma-Tadema's ‘The Wine Shop’(1873); and works by Holman Hunt, Dyce, Lord Leighton, Millais and Rossetti.
More recently the collection was enriched by the bequest of Lord Samuel of Wych Cross who donated eighty-three seventeenth-century Dutch paintings in 1987, all of which are displayed: ‘the greatest art bequest of this century’, according to art dealer Hugh Leggatt.
Themes such as the role of the Lord Mayor, the relationship of the City with the Sovereign and the life of the City are also covered in this wide-ranging show.
1992 sees two major exhibitions devoted to Genoese art of the Baroque age, the first in Genoa itself, at Palazzo Reale and Palazzo Spinola di Pellicceria from 29 April, the other in Frankfurt, at the Schirn Kunsthalle (29 August-9 November).
The exhibits will come from Italian and foreign museums, and private collections in Genoa and Liguria; these include 175 paintings, twenty-five graphic works, thirty marble and wooden sculptures, twenty-five ceramic pieces and ten pieces of silver, as well as furniture, textiles, medals and books.
Most of the exhibits were restored with the help of the Amici dei Musei at a total cost of L1,450 million,(£670,365; $1.17 million) of which L70,000,000 will come from the Comitato Nazionale Colombiano.
According to Dr Mary Newcomb Schleier, the organiser of the Frankfurt exhibition, the Genoa showing will not be prolonged, as about twenty of the exhibits travel to Frankfurt.
The Schirn Kunsthalle will have about 200 exhibits, of which 130 are paintings, and the remainder sculpture, ceramics, silver, and furniture, covering the period from the beginning of the Genoese Republic with Andrea Doria until 1815.
The over 160 lenders are international, ranging from museums in Madrid, Florence, Rio, Dresden, and the United States to Poland and Russia, and many private collections world-wide.
‘We are not aiming at a local audience, but are bearing the EEC in mind, and of course all those who come to the Frankfurt Book Fair at the same time.’
The Frankfurt exhibition follows in the series which included ‘Guido Reni and Europe’(1988–89), ‘Savoldo’(1990), and ‘Guercino’(1991–92).
Lately the greatest successes at the Museum of Fine Arts have been ‘Renoir’, ‘Monet in the Nineties’ and ‘Masterpieces from the Cone Collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art’.
Approximately one hundred paintings from the museum's permanent collection include works by all of the principal practitioners from Boudin to Pissarro, Homer to Hassam, and Sickert to Sorolla, with many lesser known followers from Norway, Belgium, Holland, Italy, Germany, Poland and elsewhere.
Walk into a dimly-lit gallery and approach the welded steel device fitted with a battery of fan-shaped movie screens.
Climb onto a platform and your weight sets the contraption in motion the deck rides up and down simulating ocean swells, the soundtrack plays the moans of whale songs, and a film projection shows an opening and closing hand that approaches and recedes in wavelike sequence on the now-rotating screens.
This mechanically manic installation-cum-excursion is the work of Steve Barry, a New York trained artist who teaches at the University of New Mexico.
Bankrolled by the city government and powered by a marketing blitz in the bible belt, these annual blockbusters in the downtown convention centre have attracted hundreds of thousands of visitors from throughout the region and beyond, outpacing concurrent exhibitions at the major US museums.
The prelude to ‘WONDERS’ was ‘Rameses the Great’, a selection of seventy-four objects from the Cairo Museum that the mayor of Montreal had brought to North America for Expo ‘86.
Memphis signed on for the subsequent tour and expanded the exhibition, featuring the Rameses Colossus in the 1987 showing in the Memphis Cook Convention Center.
Aside from‘King Tut’, which stopped in New Orleans during the late 1970s, ‘Rameses’ became the largest international show the South-east had ever seen, attracting nearly 700,000 visitors.
‘Rameses’ exceeded attendance at any exhibition in America during its five-month period and paid for itself, turned a $1.5 million profit and, all told, generated an estimated $88 million for Memphis.
On 12 October 1989, with a $500,000 planning grant from local businessman ‘Ned’ Cook a son of the convention centre's namesake the city founded ‘WONDERS: The Memphis International Cultural Series’.
The inaugural show, last year's ‘Catherine the Great: Treasures of Imperial Russia’, brought 287 decorative arts objects from the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg (The Art Newspaper, No. 8, May 1991, p. 9).
This year there are two ‘WONDERS’ events: ‘Splendors of the Ottoman Sultans’, featuring around 280 items, many from the Topkapi Palace in Istanbul (until 16 August), and ‘The Etruscans: Legacy of a Lost Civilization’with 175 objects from the Vatican (1 May-31 August).
The idea for a ‘Catherine’ exhibition was first proposed to the Hermitage by the National Geographic Society in Washington, D.C. The project lay dormant until Memphis came up with more than $6 million, and arranged co-sponsorship with Federal Express, Delta Airlines, the State of Tennessee, and Kroger Co. (a local grocery store chain).
The show ran from 10 April to 30 September 1991, seven days a week, and drew a reported 600,000 less than ‘Rameses’, but the largest art show attendance in the US in 1991.
‘WONDERS’ appears to have become the principal event in the cultural hub of the Tennessee-Arkansas-Mississippi tri-state region.
Jack Kyle, Public Relations Coordinator for the ‘WONDERS’ Series, told The Art Newspaper, ‘The response to ‘Tut’told us there's a market here for these kinds of events’.
This having been confirmed, the city is spending about $5.3 million for the ‘Ottoman’ show, with projected attendance of 500,000, and $3.2 million for the smaller ‘Etruscans’exhibition, which should attract about 200,000.
Dr Nurhan Atacey, Dean of the Faculty of Letters of Istanbul University, and a leading expert on Turkish and Persian miniature painting, Iznik pottery and Turkish textiles, is curating the exhibition and writing the catalogue.
The balance are from Turkish naval and military museums, the Turkish and Islamic Museums of Istanbul and Bursa, the Sadberk Hanim Museum in Istanbul (the first private museum in Turkey), and the privately owned Kuyas Collection, a major lender of Iznik pottery.
There are miniatures, sultan tents, a harem carriage, a throne, jewelled items, agate drinking cups, Iznik pottery, caftans, swords and the emerald-encrusted Topkapi dagger, which has only once before left the palace.
The ‘Etruscans’ exhibition, curated by Dr Francesco Buranelli of the Gregorian Etruscan Museum (see p. 14) in the Vatican, brings to the US for the first time around 180 pieces from the Guglielmi Collection, including votive busts, cinerary urns, domestic items, gold jewellery, and bronzes such as the ‘Putto Graziani’.
As a gesture of gratitude to the American Patrons of the Vatican Museum led by Mrs Helen Boehm, who bought part of the collection for the museum and have refurbished a wing, the Vatican agreed to send several hundred of the Etruscan objects on a tour of five US cities.
Mrs Boehm told The Art Newspaper that Walter Persegatti, former Treasurer and Secretary General of the Vatican Museums, and now International Coordinator of the Patrons and Friends of the Vatican Museums, was instrumental in making the loan possible.
The link with Memphis came about, in part, owing to Mrs Boehm's business ties with the city, and the fact that her studio produced porcelain objects for the ‘Rameses’ and ‘Catherine’gift shops.
The ‘WONDERS’ shows provide ‘a significant enhancement to the quality of life in the region’, says Mr Kyle, who notes that many people in the region cannot get to New York, Chicago, Washington D.C. and other big cities that have important collections and major temporary shows on a regular basis.
‘Our efforts are to develop exhibitions that have a high appeal to the general public, while helping to educate and inform as much as possible’, explains Mr Kyle.
Included in the price of a ticket ($9.50 adult, $5.00 youth, $2.00 student groups) is an audio guide (screen actress Lauren Bacall narrated the ‘Catherine’ tape).
Twyla Dixon, Marketing and Promotion Director for the series, told The Art Newspaper her marketing budget for each show is $500,000 ($200,000 for the smaller ‘Etruscans show’ this year).
Based on a study of the pioneering ‘King Tut’ campaign, the ‘WONDERS’team focuses primarily on a 300–500 mile region around Memphis, implementing a dense, multi-tier marketing strategy.
Before the shows open, they sponsor media trips enabling journalists and the five Memphis television stations to produce thirty-minute documentaries previewing the exhibitions' countries of origin.
Radio stations and television channels donate time for ‘public service announcements’ and the Memphis Business Journal creates a special supplement for each show.
The agency places advertisements in state magazines and in regional editions of national publications, and a ‘speakers bureau’ books 250 engagements within the 300 mile region.
As posters go up in hotel lobbies and banners are hung in the international airport terminals, crowds are a foregone conclusion.
The exhibitions are held in the 26,000 sq.ft. two-storey Grand Exhibition Hall of the multi-use Memphis Cook Convention Center.
(The Etruscan show will be held concurrently in Memphis Pink Palace Museum, whose name derives from the pink Georgia marble of the original building, former home of the founder of the Piggly Wiggly grocery chain).
‘Catherine’ was set in an architectural representation of the Hermitage, complete with imitation window and door frames, cornices and mouldings, matching paint colours, and a twenty foot long photo-mural of the exterior of the Hermitage that greeted visitors at the entrance.
And the Pink Palace has a theatrical setting for the ‘Etruscans’, with a temple façade, city gate, house entrance, banqueting tent and tomb entrance.
The ‘Rameses’ team was led by Dr Rita Freud, then Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at Memphis State University, who has since become Curator of Egyptian Art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
‘Catherine’ was assembled by a curatorial committee from the Hermitage, led by Galina Komelova, Head of the Department of Russian Art, with Dr Allison Hilton of Georgetown University, a Russian art scholar.
Many recognised the ‘Rameses’ and ‘Catherine’titles, but had seen neither show, and knew little or nothing about the imminent Turkish and Vatican exhibitions.
Foremost is the fact that although the exhibitions are non-profit making, they are perceived as commercial exercises, more entertainments than museums.
Certainly, the middle-brow approach to the consumer marketing campaign throws a certain light on the productions, but it is not necessarily reflected in the character of the shows themselves.
Third, the national and international art press have shunned ‘WONDERS’, and the dearth of mainstream press coverage serves to keep a lid on the series.
James Wood, Director of the Art Institute of Chicago, conveyed a suspicion held by most high-level museum administrators: ‘I would assume that these exhibitions have been tailored more as events than as the kind of exhibitions that are being sought after by the major museums’.
The Deputy Director of the National Gallery, Roger Mandle, told The Art Newspaper, ‘It's sort of anomalous to have an exhibition in a convention centre’, but the ‘Catherine’ installation was ‘professionally done’, he says.
Dr Douglas Noble, of the Memphis Pink Palace Museum, headquarters of the city system, told The Art Newspaper that the ‘Etruscans’ show is inaugurating a newly completed $7.5 million expansion renovation at his museum.
He further told The Art Newspaper that completion of a new wing in 1991 has now given the Brooks the physical space to handle the attendance ‘WONDERS’ has drawn.
Thomas Hoving, former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, told The Art Newspaper, ‘There's no reason Memphis should not put on these great shows.
Asked why the shows were not coming to Washington D.C., New York, Chicago or Los Angeles, Mr Hoving said: ‘Oh, they'll grumble something about scheduling or funding.
‘The art museums of the United States have given up on great shows with the exception of Carter Brown, and now he's out.
Mr Wood conjectured, ‘They could be raising money for the lending institutions, which is not the kind of thing we do’.
For ‘Rameses’, Memphis sponsored the restoration of the exhibition's centrepiece the 47-ton 27 foot Colossus of Memphis carried out by the staff of the Egyptian Antiquities Organisation at a cost of $125,000.
The E.A.O. also got a minimum guarantee of $300,000 from Memphis and every city on the five-stop North American tour, and additional royalties after the exhibitions took in a certain amount.
Memphis contributed $250,000 to allow conservators at the Hermitage to restore Catherine's coronation carriage, an elaborately carved and gilded confection adorned with panels painted by Boucher.
A spokesman for ‘WONDERS’ told The Art Newspaper, ‘The approximate total guarantee is about $300,000 in cash for loan of the Ottoman objects, some of which goes to restoration’.
However, because the venues are not booked sufficiently in advance, only institutions with the most flexible schedules have been able to participate.
After closing at the Hammer on 12 April, ‘Catherine’ will go to the Dallas Historical Society, and to one other venue, yet to be determined.
The Vatican's ‘Etruscans’ show has a five-city itinerary that includes the Dallas Science Museum, the Morris Museum in Morristown, New Jersey, the Museum of Five Art at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, and the Birmingham Art Museum in Alabama.
Leonidov was one of the many Soviet architects of the Avant-garde whose designs remained projects on paper, only a staircase, in the Kislodovsk sanatorium, ever being executed.
This drawing is among the 700 or so exhibits, many never seen before in the West, in the exhibition ‘Die grosse Utopie: die russische Avantgarde 1915–1932’, at the Schirn Kunsthalle until 10 May.
In The Art Newspaper No. 16 March 1992 p. 6 we published the fears of some art historians that this exhibition might have been infiltrated by fakes; in the event these fears have proved to be groundless and the show has been enjoying great success.
From 15 May to 26 June, the Polish Cultural Institute is showing thirty-six watercolour views of Warsaw by Zygmunt Vogel (1764–1826), near-contemporary of the better-known Bellotto.
Painted in 1785–86, these watercolours were the property of the Raczynski family prior to World War II, and were crucially important, with Bellotto's views, in the rebuilding of Warsaw.
Vogel's watercolours were taken by the occupying forces to Germany but in 1946 were successfully claimed back and returned.
‘Guercino: Master Painter of the Baroque’ is the first American exhibition devoted to the artist's paintings, while ‘Guercino: Drawings from Windsor Castle’includes sixty works from the celebrated royal collection.
The paintings on show in Washington have been chosen by Diane de Grazia, Curator of Southern Baroque Painting, in consultation with Sir Denis Mahon.
Many of the paintings were shown at the Museo Civico Archeologico, Bologna, the Pinacoteca Civica and Chiesa del Rosario, Cento, and the Schirn Kunsthalle, Frankfurt, before the present showing.
‘Drawings from Windsor’ was organized by the Royal Library, Windsor, with the National Gallery, Washington, the Kimbell, Fort Worth, and the Drawing Center, New York, and curated by Andrew Robison.
This year one of its famous paintings, Sargent's ‘El Jaleo’ will leave to be on view at the National Gallery of Washington until 5 July 1992.
On the conditions of lending Hilliard Goldfarb, Chief Curator of the Isabella Stewart Gardner said, ‘we consider whether the work lent will make an enduring contribution to a work of critical scholarship’.
‘El Jaleo’, a lifesize painting of a Spanish dancer, will be the centrepiece of a small exhibition of seven paintings and forty-four drawings by Sargent related to the Boston painting, including ‘The Spanish Dancer’, an earlier version of ‘El Jaleo’ which was abandoned by the artist in Paris and rediscovered in 1988 in Grenoble.
On 13 March, De Morgen, a respected Flemish-language daily, published a front-page article stating that Jan Vercruysse, the forty-four-year-old Belgian artist who owes much of his growing international reputation to the keen discernment of Documenta boss Jan Hoet, was intending to withdraw from the Documenta IX survey of contemporary art (see The Art Newspaper No. 17, April 1992, p.12).
De Morgen's correspondent interpreted Vercruysse's decision as ‘a reaction against Hoet's preparations for Documenta, which Vercruysse has labelled showy and pandering to public taste’.
Some have pointed out that the mercurial Vercruysse has provoked similar situations in the past, and always as a result of difficulties in their relationship: most recently over an exhibition to be held in May at the Dhondt Dhaenens Museum, Deurle, which examines Belgium's contribution to Documenta.
The house, built in the 1560s by William Cecil, Lord High Treasurer to Elizabeth I, but much altered and remodelled in the late seventeenth century, continues to yield undiscovered or long-lost treasures.
Included in the exhibition will be a Kakiemon group of wrestlers, until recently used as a door-stop; a selection of sixteenth- and seventeenth-century jewels found hidden under sawdust in bakers' trays; a small seventeenth-century Italian ivory copy of Bernini's ‘Apollo and Daphne’ group and a silver penstand by Phillip Syng who designed the penstand used in the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
In the energetic and art-historically minded care of Lady Victoria Leatham, Burghley has undergone major improvements in the form of restoration, cleaning and the cataloguing of the house's contents.
Over the past ten years a series of exhibitions at Burghley and on tour have focused on the house's clocks, European and Oriental ceramics, books, objets de vertu and scientific instruments.
Apart from the outstanding quality and rarity of many of the items, much of their fascination for scholars has lain in being able to document them in the family's ancient inventories.
From 21 Mayto 23 August, the Frick Collection is showing ‘An Album of Nineteenth-Century Interiors: watercolours from two private collections’.
The exhibition is the work of Charlotte Gere, who has written its exhaustive catalogue, investigating the rooms' contents down to their present whereabouts and the attribution of paintings.
Dr Edgar Munhill, the Frick's Curator, pointed out to The Art Newspaper, ‘We have been doing exhibitions here for almost twenty years around aspects of our own collection, often not well known to the general public.
In a sense it continues the focus on the interior shown in our Ingres, ‘La Comtesse d'Haussonville’ in the exhibition devoted to that picture in 1985’.
Much of it is preserved in the former DDR and now, thanks to German re-unification and to a renewed appreciation of grandiose kitsch, this great self-styled ‘Universalkünstler’ of the German fin-de-siècle can now be rediscovered at the Städelsches Kunstinstitut.
The current exhibition of his sculptures, drawings, paintings, and designs has been put together by the Museum der Bildenden Künste of Leipzig and sent to Frankfurt in return for the Städel's Max Beckmann exhibition which was shown in Leipzig in 1990.
The Städel's Graphische Sammlung has contributed a special display grouped around the ‘The Glove’, the series of ten etchings (1881) which made Klinger famous and which influenced Max Ernst and other surrealists.
The focal point of the show is the monumental ‘Beethoven’ sculpture, seen as the crowning achievement of Klinger's career by admirers (including the artist himself) or, alternatively, an expression of his ‘lethally bad taste’(Georg Bussmann in the catalogue).
Two rows of smaller sculptures lead up to it, beginning with Klinger's femmes fatales, ‘Cassandra’(1893) and the ‘New Salome’(1895).
Finally, on a high pedestal, an incarnation of artistic genius, Beethoven sits naked the body of white marble with alabaster drapery over lap and legs, on a bronze throne.
Completed for the exhibition of Vienna Sezession in 1902, where it became a sensation and drew both exalted praise and extensive mockery, the monument was bought by Klinger's native town of Leipzig for the then enormous sum of DM250,000.
Magritte should be canonised by the advertising industry for the inspiration he has given it; here are some of his own rarely seen ads
The exhibition opening at the Hayward Gallery towards the end of this month (21 May-2 August) is the most significant presentation of the art of Magritte since the survey mounted for the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels and the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris in 1978–79.
Comprising 111 paintings, fifteen works on paper, nine painted objects and three posthumous bronze sculptures based upon his compositions, it has been selected by David Sylvester and Sarah Whitfield and will be shown in three important American venues in the following twelve months: at the Metropolitan Museum, New York (9 September-22 November), at the Menil Foundation in Houston (15 December-21 February 1993) and at the Art Institute of Chicago (16 March-30 May 1993).
Magritte's career has not been examined in such detail in Britain since Sylvester curated a smaller and more exclusive exhibition for the Tate Gallery in 1969.
In scope, too, it eclipses James Thrall Soby's edited portrait of the great Belgian Surrealist master which took place at New York's Museum of Modern Art in 1965 and ignored his Impressionist period.
It seems remarkable that nearly thirty years has elapsed since there was a major museum exhibition in the United States, although Magritte's work has been familiar to, and widely admired by, the generation of American Pop artists.
One of the lenders to the exhibition is Jasper Johns, who owns ‘La Clef des Songes’, an important word painting of 1935.
With architects Stanton Williams, with whom he collaborated for the installation of the recent Jasper Johns drawings exhibition, Sylvester has devised an unusual and imaginative solution to the exhibition's arrangement.
He has inverted the customary circuit and opens the exhibition on the gallery's upper floor where experimental works revealing Magritte's interest in Cubism and Futurism at the beginning of his career will be hung.
Beyond it, the large upper space becomes a labyrinth of small chambers containing pictures from 1925 to 1928, including paintings made at the beginning of his short residence in Paris.
This pattern, which echoes the scheme invented by Sylvester for the Tate Gallery more than twenty years ago and encourages a focus upon single works, is continued in the long gallery of the ground floor where paintings from 1929 to 1939 are placed on both sides of a partition wall.
The gallery above the ramp is divided into five distinct spaces for the Impressionist paintings inspired by Renoir and dating from after 1940, the ‘vache’ paintings which occupied the artist briefly in 1948 and were the subject of a recent reassessment by Bernard Blistene, Director of the Musées de Marseilles, the rock or stone paintings, an important selection of gouaches and works on paper, and Magritte's painted bottles and other objects.
The exhibition is concluded in the gallery beneath the ramp, where three large bronze sculptures dating from 1967, ‘Madame Récamier’, ‘La Joconde’ and ‘La Folie des Grandeurs’are surrounded by eight paintings from the final chapter of Magritte's career.
Although it will attract the lion's share of attention, the exhibition is, in fact, only the last link in a chain of new developments in Magritte studies, for a fresh monograph and the first of five projected volumes of a catalogue raisonné are being published this month.
David Sylvester, the author of the monograph, is also the editor of the catalogue raisonné, which has been financed by the Menil Foundation, the largest repository of Magritte's art and a major lender to the Hayward Gallery's exhibition.
In association with Mercator Fonds and Sotheby's Publications, the Foundation is the project's co-publisher (£95 per volume; £400 for a subscription set of the complete catalogue).
With Sarah Whitfield, Sylvester has written Volume I, which covers Magritte's career to 1930 and identifies 333 oil paintings, with an additional fifty-six works, recorded but lost, listed in an appendix, and Volume II (1931–48), which will be published in the autumn.
They are followed by the publication, probably in the spring of 1993, of Volumes III (1949–67) and IV (works on paper and temperas 1920–67), which have been written by Sarah Whitfield and Michael Raeburn, who is responsible for designing and typesetting the entire project.
The catalogue will be completed by Volume V, provisionally scheduled for publication in the autumn of 1993, which will carry an addendum for any works flushed out by the exhibition, a long bibliography and extensive cross-referenced indices.
Totalling more than 1,000 paintings, nearly forty painted objects, eight bronze sculptures and about 600 gouaches, watercolours and papiers collés, the catalogue is an ambitious task which has occupied Sylvester's scholarship for twenty years.
The fruit is the enlargement of Magritte's known oeuvre by as many as 200 works, never previously illustrated, which Sylvester and his team have recovered from private collections, and a serious attempt to unravel that most taxing issue of the existence of different versions of the same composition and of different images which carry the same title.
Extensive entries for each of the artist's works are preceded by a long chronology with numbered and itemised sections discussing in detail the major developments in Magritte's career.
Published by the Menil Foundation with Mercator Fonds and Thames & Hudson (£45), it is aimed at a wider readership, but it will be the essential essay for all students keen to learn how a great scholar's opinions have been honed over the long years spent in the consideration of Magritte's art.
Belgium is making preparations to celebrate the centenary of René Magritte, who was born in 1898, amid considerable regret that a large part of the artist's private collection was lost to the nation following the death of his widow.
Charly Herscovici, who formerly assisted Georgette Magritte and for the last six years has managed the painter's copyright and droit morale, explained how this could have come about.
For years, for example, they refused to move two canvases by Pasque and Mambour, which were ambiguously placed at the entrance to the Magritte room.
Later, when E.L.T. Mesens offered them his fabulous collection, which included a hundred or so works by Magritte, thirty by Max Ernst and twenty Dalís, asking only that the exhibition areas should bear his name, the directors were equally negative.
As a result of the rigidity of the museum's directors, Magritte's widow drew up a second will, and the new provisions were recognised as valid.
In the event, part of the collection was left to the museum at Charleroi, near Magritte's home town; another part went to the Pompidou Centre's Musée National d'Art Moderne, while the painter's remaining works, house and surrealist library were left ownerless: his widow had not had time to stipulate how they should be divided.
Sadly, the Belgian State was obliged to let these treasures be auctioned, and they were eventually sold by Sotheby's in London and at Brussels's Palais des Beaux-Arts.
The Belgian government did everything it could to keep the works in the country: a genealogist was employed to trace distant relatives of the artist, and a new law on donations of works of art was passed, with the express purpose of encouraging his heirs to pay the death duties in kind (in which case roughly 80% of the collection would have remained in Belgium).
Some are still being bought and sold and, according to Charly Herscovici, prices have been rising slowly since 1967, the year Magritte died.
Even now, however, good-quality large-scale canvases rarely fetch more than $4 million; and there have been problems with forgeries.
Herscovici says: ‘At a Foundation in Madrid, I came across a fake Magritte which had been slipped into into an official exhibition so that it could be reproduced in the catalogue without my permission in order to achieve legitimacy.
His works travel the world, reproduced on postcards, posters and any medium which does not actually detract from the artist's intention.
As heir to the droit morale and guardian of the Magritte estate, Charly Herscovici explained that ‘Inheriting this intellectual property makes me responsible for protecting the artist and his work, and ensuring that it is handed down for posterity.
I have always been fascinated by Magritte's work; I have met all his friends, and I worked on his archives for six years.
Nowadays, I am consulted on all matters pertaining to him, and I feel my role is to make him better known.
The mammoth catalogue raisonné of Magritte's work would almost certainly not have come into existence if it were not for John (d. 1973) and Dominique de Menil.
It goes back to the 1969 Magritte exhibition, also curated by Sylvester, to which the Menil lent a number of works.
John de Menil conceived the idea of a catalogue raisonné of the artist's work then and asked David Sylvester to be its editor; the Foundation has been supporting the project ever since.
The couple was first drawn to the work of Magritte by the high regard in which he was held by another great Surrealist, Marcel Duchamp, and by Julian Levy and Alexander Iolas.
Both French nationals, Mrs de Menil was born a Schlumberger, an Alsatian family whose fortune was made in oil drilling equipment, and which transferred is centre of operations to Texas in 1942.
A love of art was kindled in her by a Dominican priest in the 1930s, and indeed, a spiritual and moral consciousness beyond the usual lip-service to the ‘otherness’ of creative endeavour has always informed her involvement in art.
In the garden around the museum, designed by Renzo Piano, stands Barnett Newman's ‘Broken Obelisk’ of 1968, which the city fathers of Houston had turned down as a gift: it was dedicated to the memory of Martin Luther King, murdered that year.
At the heart of the around 1000-strong collection are a hundred works by the Surrealist, Max Ernst Dominique was painted by Ernst in the 1930s with antiquities, Byzantine and medieval, Oceanic and Indian artefacts, and twentieth-century art, all assembled by the couple over forty years.
The museum opened to the public in 1987 and the Collection is now funded by donations from Dominique de Menil and from the Estate of John de Menil, as well as from other foundations and individuals.
Six to ten temporary exhibitions are presented every year, and other more wide-ranging projects undertaken by the Foundation include a critical history of Vatican II in collaboration with the University of Bologna's Institute for Religious Studies, and the publication of a number of books on the image of the black in Western art.
Magritte buyers are serious collectors, rather than the speculative buyers who were largely responsible for the rise and fall in prices of other European twentieth-century artists over the past few years.
The demand for Magritte, and for other Surrealist painters, continues to be strong and prices have risen consistently, although Surrealist works have not yet commanded the top flights of prices seen for other Classic modern artists.
In November 1990 Sotheby's New York offered three paintings by the artist in the Schlumberger Jones sale: of these ‘L'Idole’ made a hammer price of $1.1 million (est $600,000–800,000); and ‘La Philosophie dans le boudoir’, bought by a European dealer, made the then world record of $1.75 million (est. $700,000–900,000).
In New York, the same week, however, $9.9 million was paid for Léger's ‘Les Maisons sous les Arbres’ and $5.9 for a good early Miró, ‘Danseuse Espagnole’.
In May 1991 the Sotheby's Magritte record was broken by ‘Les barricades mystérieuses’(1961) which made $2.2 million at Christie's New York (est $1.2–1.6 million).
In the opinion of Melanie Clore there is no reason to believe that such prices could not be repeated at the present time.
Whether they break through to the next level will make interesting watching: the forthcoming exhibition and David Sylvester's catalogue raisonné may prove influential.
Playboy's use of the image relies on a sub-text of the woman as closed bottle, about to be uncorked.
Paradoxically the woman is also inside the bottle offered but inaccessible; thus the spectator/consumer can only quench his desire by reading the magazine.
He also produced work of startling modernity such as the second catalogue for the furrier Samuel of 1928 which uses a disjointed photo-montage style to produce startlingly Surrealist images accompanied by brief, enigmatic texts on the facing pages.
Poverty compelled a return to advertising in the early 1940s but the work of this period is essentially derivative in that it borrows from the artist's own paintings.
When asked in 1946 what he disliked most, the artist replied ‘Advertising!’ and defined modernity as ‘The decorative arts, folklore, newsreaders, aerodynamism, the smell of naphtha…’.
Veteran British art critic, former Arts Council member, broadcaster, film-maker and exhibition organiser: Henry Moore (1951,1968 and 1978); Alberto Giacometti (1955, 1965 and 1981); Soutine (1963); Magritte (1969,1978–79 and1992); Robert Morris (1971); Henri Laurens (1971); Joan Miró bronzes (1972); ‘Islamic Carpets’(1972) and ‘The Eastern carpet in the Western world’(1983); De Kooning (1977); ‘Dada and Surrealism Reviewed’(1978).
The juxtaposition of seemingly disparate objects; the distortion of scale; the vaguely poetic resonances (the wedding ring around the finger, the fingers on the piano keys etc.) all contribute to the enigma of the images at once puzzling and yet trite.
Such a combination made Magritte's work immensely appealing to the Pop Art movement and to the advertising industry, to the artist's continuing annoyance.
The design is plagiarised from Magritte's own 1934 painting ‘L'Arbre savant’, the first such borrowing by the artist from one of his own paintings for use as publicity material.
In the painting the shelves in the tree hold a candle, pyramid and worms; in the advertisement they are substituted by bottles of perfume.
The concepts of self-referentialism, strangeness and improbability, all central to Magritte's paintings, were easily adapted and assimilated into his advertising, and again became important for the development of the genre.
It has never generated the cosmopolitan energy typical of Berlin, nor the creative ferment associated with other German cities, such as Düsseldorf or Cologne.
Bonn's cultural life should nevertheless be enhanced by its new Kunst-und-Ausstellungshalle, an exhibition complex which has risen on the site adjacent to the Stadtmuseum.
With the sole exception of the Museum of German History, which recently moved to the Altes Museum in former East Berlin, it is unique in being funded entirely by the German federal government.
To the great satisfaction of Irmgard Schwaetzer, federal minister for public works, the final building costs will be almost DM1 million less than the DM128 million (£45.7 million; $79.5 million) originally budgeted for the project.
The gigantic construction (the ground floor hall alone is 1,300 metres square) will be opened by Chancellor Kohl on 19 June, four months ahead of schedule, to coincide with the Documenta exhibition in Kassel and the ‘Platzverführung’ in Stuttgart.
The idea of creating an exhibition centre to demonstrate the federal government's commitment to culture (usually responsibility of the regions), as well as to political and economic development, dates back to the 1950s.
Not until 1985, however, did the long debate bear fruit, when an international competition was launched to design a suitable building.
The winner was the Viennese architect Gustav Peichl, who proposed a straightforward rectangular design giving over 4,300 square metres of exhibition space on several levels.
The 6,020 square-metre terrace is capped by three unequal cones, admitting light to the areas below and symbolising the classic triad of the visual arts: architecture, painting and sculpture.
Further symbolism can be found in the row of sixteen dark metal columns that stand along one side, one for each Land.
Peichl has designed a building as well suited to display as to debate: in addition to modular areas intended to house exhibitions of all kinds, there is a technologically sophisticated complex consisting of a library, a 500-seat auditorium, television studios, and rooms for lectures, concerts, film shows and live performances.
Before managing the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art and Palazzo Grassi in Venice, the Swedish scholar presided over the fortunes of the Pompidou Centre, where he pioneered the multi-disciplinary approach and the concept of architectural flexibility.
We have tried to create a centre which first meets the needs of the city, but which can also assume a national role.
From the beginning, the aim was to set up a prestigious institution, able to house the big exhibitions which have often passed Germany by.
The Bonn/Berlin dilemma is changing the image of the federal capital, but I think things will remain substantially the same over the next ten years’.
Although it was originally intended to receive exhibitions rather than to devise and produce them, the new federal Kunsthalle is now setting its sights higher.
Its directors have expressed their enthusiasm for European integration and have established a network of contacts and agreements with other countries, setting up new types of collaboration and programmes for joint and travelling exhibitions.
‘But we are not seeking to be a showcase or represent specifically German interests’, explains Pontus Hulten, who is assisted in his work by an international consultative committee.
‘The Ministry of the Interior, which has overall responsibility for German museums, has never tried to tell us what to do; the only restrictions on our activities have been financial’.
Although it has no permanent collections, its flexibility and room for manoeuvre could lead to new kinds of collaboration with institutions and individuals willing to lend works of art.
As far as the building itself is concerned, Hulten has not been able to exert much influence on a project conceived some seven years ago, but he professes to be satisfied with the structure, describing it as ‘generous’.
He does intend to increase its flexibility by modifying internal partitions, thus improving on the ‘outdated concepts of the Sixties and Seventies’.
Jahrhundert’ is another historical exhibition, bringing together images by thirty photographers, including Diane Arbus, Bernd and Hilla Becher, Paul Strand and André Kertész.
Niki de Saint-Phalle gets a solo show, with a wide range of works displayed inside the building and a further thirty-five outside in a kind of roof garden.
This is the first time so many monumental works by the French artist have been shown in one place (though her Gallericcio works are even bigger).
The first exhibition of contemporary art planned by the Kunsthalle will be devoted to Gerhardt Richter, and is due to visit Stockholm, New York and Paris before arriving in Bonn.
This exhibition also demonstrates our determination to concentrate on quality, and to make this centre a more ‘classic’ institution than many of its counterparts.
WASHINGTON, D.C. In honour of the 1976 bicentennial, the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American Art (NMAA) completed a five-year survey of pre-1914 paintings by American artists born before 1880.
The NMAA is assembling a register of American sculptures indoors (40,000 entries so far) and has announced plans to create a comprehensive inventory of America's outdoor sculpture.
(SOS!), is a joint project of the NMAA and the National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property (NIC), a non-profit clearing house for conservation efforts in America.
Since many of the outdoor works of art suffer from natural wear, pollution, vandalism and neglect, the new registry will contain condition assessments.
Elizabeth Broun, Director of the NMAA, warns, ‘It's quite likely that no one remembers how the sculptures got there or who's responsible for them’.
The operation will be coordinated locally by municipal agencies, historical societies and art museums that will enlist as many as 25,000 volunteers, making it the largest volunteer cultural project in the country.
At present, only the painting index is open to the public, but the sculpture component will be available by appointment beginning later this year, and the entire index of American art will eventually be accessible on-line.
Susan Nichols, Director of SOS! for the NIC, told The Art Newspaper she has already had inquiries from abroad regarding the establishment of parallel inventories.
The Tate Gallery, London, for example, is considering the possibility of expanding the British National Inventory of War Memorials, administered by the Imperial War Museum.
SOS! is funded by the Getty Grant Program, the Henry Luce Foundation and the Pew Charitable Trusts, with additional support from the NEA, Ogilvy Adams & Rinehart, and others.
Lancaster University has begun a new phase in its campaign to become the repository of the world's most important collection of Ruskin drawings, manuscripts, books and memorabilia, with the opening of a special exhibition ‘Ruskin, Tradition and Architecture’ at the university's Peter Scott Gallery (4–29 May).
In 1990 Lancaster came to an initial agreement with the Bembridge Education Trust for the future transfer of the key Ruskin collection formed by the Trust's founder, J.H. Whitehouse, to a proposed new purpose-built Ruskin Library at the university.
Whitehouse (1873–1955) was a disciple of Ruskin: he formed the Birmingham Ruskin Society in 1896, and in 1919 founded Bembridge School on the Isle of Wight, which he intended to be run on Ruskinian lines.
When Ruskin's heirs started to dispose of his manuscripts and drawings, Whitehouse began to buy them up, and he built a Ruskin Gallery at Bembridge School.
The collection formed by Whitehouse, which includes Ruskin's manuscript diaries and a superb range of his drawings from every period, is now estimated to be worth £5 million.
Bembridge School takes the view that the collection no longer has any educational value, and that it needs the space it occupies for other purposes.
In 1990 the Education Trust controversially sold off some of the non-Ruskin association items in the collection in order to create an endowment fund for the rest.
The offer by Lancaster University to become ‘academic custodians’ of the collection, while ownership would remain in the Education Trust's hands, was timely.
But acceptance has been conditional on the university being able to raise £1.5 million to build a suitable building, and to conserve and endow the collection.
The university proposes to create an international centre for Ruskin studies, with a new Ruskin Foundation to administer both Brantwood and the Ruskin Library at Lancaster.
The exhibition is intended to underline the long term commitment to the study of Ruskin by the university's Ruskin Programme, a research group made up of scholars from different disciplines in the humanities.
During the academic year 1990–91 the group focused on the theme of Ruskin, tradition and architecture, and invited the contribution of visiting speakers from other institutions.
The exhibition brings together some of Ruskin's finest architectural studies, not only from the collection of the Education Trust, but also from the Guild of St George collection at the Ruskin Gallery in Sheffield, the John Rylands Library in Manchester and the tiny Ruskin Museum in Coniston.
The organisers stress that this is not an exhibition about Ruskin's relationship to Victorian architecture, but about his approach to architecture as a whole.
In order to explore the possibility of a continuing Ruskinian influence on the idea of ‘tradition’ in architecture today, the upper section of the gallery features the work and ideas of four contemporary architects, Robert Adam, Michael Hopkins, Richard MacCormac and Richard Rogers.
In his contribution the exhibition's co-ordinator Nigel Whiteley, Head of Visual Arts at Lancaster, argues that the tradition of Ruskin's ethical approach to architecture survived into the Modern Movement, however different the aesthetic result.
In true Ruskinian fashion Whiteley castigates contemporary classical revivalists who wish to appropriate the authority of tradition exclusively to the classicism which Ruskin abhorred.
In view of the contemporary architects whose work is on display beside Ruskin's, it will be interesting to see in which style the projected Ruskin Library is built.
Following the closure of the Museum of Art and Industry after World War II, much of the national collection of glass, textiles, ceramics, maiolica, enamels and ivory has been stored in large boxes in the basement of Palazzo Barberini and other museums.
Recently both the Roman city authorities and the Ministero dei Beni Culturali have independently produced plans for exhibiting a part of these collections.
The Roman authorities intend to refurbish the Casina delle Civette at Villa Torlonia, which already has splendid Art Nouveau furnishings and stained glass, to house twentieth-century decorative arts, whilst the Ministry has decided to allocate the Villino Boncompagni, near Via Veneto, to the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Moderna for a similar museum.
This means that the main body of the national collection still has no permanent home and it may well be that the Casina delle Civette will become a more specialised museum of Art Nouveau glass, the Villino Boncompagni will house the twentieth-century items and another site will be found for the remaining collections.
With extraordinary support from Japan, the Art Institute of Chicago has completed a $5-million reinstallation of its important East Asian collections, with expanded exhibition space, modernised storage and a new Asian Studies Center (opening 3 June).
Masao Kato, chairman of Kato Real Estate Corporation which owns the Hyatt Regency Chicago, gave $300,000 toward the purchase of a Japanese seventeenth-century screen for the new galleries, and Asahi Shimbun, one of Japan's largest daily newspapers, endowed the Asian Studies Center with $150,000.
In comparison, U.S. foundations and corporations gave a total of around $1 million, with the biggest boost from the National Endowment for the Arts, which awarded three grants totalling $210,000.
It has been three years since the galleries were last open, but according to Dr Mino, most of the material has been in the basement for half a century.
Dr Mino provided further historical perspective, insisting that credit go to Charles Kelly, former AIC Curator of Asian Art (1923–56), who encouraged gifts that formed the core of the East Asian collection.
Dr Mino has organised an ‘easy to understand chronology’, incorporating more than 1,000 works from the museum's approximately 25,000 Chinese, Japanese and Korean objects.
This autumn, the Art Institute will publish a catalogue of East Asian masterpieces, complementing and revising catalogues of the Buckingham bronzes and Sonnenschein jades, published in the 1940s and 1950s.
Over the next three years the museum will spend $10 million to shift 1,000 works into a coherent scheme embracing the whole of Western civilisation since the Middle Ages.
The John G. Johnson Collection of Netherlandish, Early Italian and nineteenth-century pictures will finally be installed in galleries juxtaposed with the museum's own paintings, medieval sculpture, decorative arts, architectural elements and period rooms.
A continuous chronology will proceed from Romanesque to Romantic on the second floor, and from mid-nineteenth-century to contemporary art on the first.
More than eighty galleries will be renovated, repainted and relit, taking advantage of natural light where possible; and seven new internal galleries will be built.
No more than twenty per cent will be closed at one time, and the galleries will reopen in phases beginning next May, and concluding in Spring 1995.
The Art Newspaper recently spoke with Anne d'Harnoncourt, the George D. Widener Director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, about this monumental project.
A planning grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1984 allowed us to assemble a group of consultants and an architect to consider integrating these elements.
We submitted a proposal to the Court of Common Pleas that oversees the Johnson Collection, and in 1989 were granted permission to proceed.
It is on permanent deposit at the museum under an agreement with the Court of Common Pleas, which essentially oversees its well-being.
Merribell Parsons, at that time assistant director for education at the Metropolitan (she now directs the Columbus Museum of Art in Ohio), Everett Fahy, Christian Prevost-Marcilhacy from the Monuments Historiques de France, and many others.
It is the belief in the need for museums to make their collections as meaningful as possible to their audiences.
We are convinced that the best way for works of art to communicate to the public is for those works to have the most beautiful and natural context in which to be shown.
The Cloisters [in New York City]is one of the great examples of giving the public a feeling of what the cultural context of a whole era was like through architecture, objects, tapestries, and other great works of art.
Now, the suite of period rooms will adjoin galleries with mid- to late-eighteenth-century paintings, as well as a number of tapestries and decorative arts which are currently not on display.
We had works by Bronzino and Pontormo, but there was a Northern Mannerist painting gap that we have just filled with the astonishing ‘Ceres, Bacchus and Venus’ by Goltzius executed in pen and brown ink with brush and oils on a prepared canvas.
A particularly great suite of Art Nouveau furniture or a large-scale Second Empire piece, for example, would give weight to the end of the century.
An array of medieval and Renaissance furniture, English paintings and portraits, English silver, French wallpaper, the extraordinarily rich assemblage of sixteenth-century paintings, both ‘official’ art of the Salons and the Impressionists.
Some of the shows we have planned include ‘The Impressionist in the city: late series paintings by Pissarro’ in 1993, a contemporary Japanese designs show in 1994 and a major late Cézanne paintings show in 1995.
The Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, Inc. made a $2 million grant for the medieval and Renaissance galleries, and the National Endowment for the Humanities followed up a $525,000 ‘Museum Program’ grant with a challenge grant of $750,000 that we have to match 3 to 1.
After he took up art collecting as a hobby in the late 1870s, Mr Johnson devoted much of his time and fortune amassing one of the country's finest collections of European Old Master and late nineteenth-century paintings.
At his death in 1917, he bequeathed his entire collection of 1,279 artworks to the City of Philadelphia, stipulating that they be exhibited in his home.
In 1923, the collection opened to the public, but ten years later the mansion was declared a fire hazard and the paintings were moved to the recently built Philadelphia Museum of Art.
In 1989, however, the Court of Common Pleas that oversees the trust wisely approved the Philadelphia Museum's petition to distribute galleries of Johnson pictures throughout the museum, adjoining rooms with related works from the museum's own collection.
Since Mr Johnson died before the museum was built, he could have had no way of knowing the context in which his collection would eventually be shown.
It can scarcely be imagined that he would have opposed the Philadelphia Museum's immensely well-conceived plan.
During this time the exhibition space will house part of the museum's permanent collection of modern art while playing host to a number of temporary exhibitions.
The first of these is a retrospective of the glass artist A.D. Copier which will start on 20 May, the day on which the building will be officially opened.
The town Senat (council) has announced that the foundation stone of the Jewish Museum will be laid on 9 November, the fifty-fourth anniversary of Kristallnacht, the anti-Jewish pogrom by the Nazis.
The project is not only symbolically important, but is also the first attempt to show the history of a town integrated with that of its Jewish community.
The municipal authorities of Barcelona, who over the past few years have acquired a great deal of experience and expertise in founding and running cultural centres, have recently signed an agreement with the Fundación Salvador Allende to collaborate in setting up a museum in Santiago, Chile, to be called the Museo de la Solidaridad Salvador Allende.
A team of professionals from Barcelona, headed by Ferran Mascarell, the city's cultural delegate, will devise a preliminary scheme for the museum whose construction is due to begin in 1993.
About 1500 works donated by artists from all over the world will be housed in the museum which will honour the memory of President Allende who was assassinated in 1973.
Some of the works were presented in 1971 as a sign of solidarity with Allende's government, the rest were donated after the coup d'état.
In recognition of the distinguished service there of Keith Andrews, the Department has now been named after him, and its purchase grant increased by £10,000.
However, Timothy Clifford, Director of the Galleries,(and formerly in the Department of Prints and Drawings at the British Museum) plans to alter their organisation.
Thus, a Keeper of Italian Painting would have responsibility for the Italian drawings, thereby not only linking their administration and scholarly maintenance but also bringing drawing into the direct relationship with painting which Clifford says he has been advocating for many years.
He tells The Art Newspaper, ‘Philip Pouncey (the leading British drawings connoisseur until his death last year) used to bemoan the fact that during his eleven years at the National Gallery in London, almost no connection was ever made between the two by curators.
All of our drawings catalogues here with the exception of the French are now in print; it would seem sensible to use the skills of one of our Keepers who specialises in French painting to fill this gap’.
The Whitney Museum is to take photography seriously: its director, David Ross, has announced the setting up of an acquisitions committee whose job will be to establish a coherent acquisitions policy, mainly by filling gaps in the present collections.
The committee will be chaired by Sandra Gilman Gonzales-Falla, who has advised the Whitney in the past on the purchase of paintings and sculptures.
The other members are Michael Ward Stout, President of the Mapplethorpe Foundation, and Audrey Irmas, a collector well-known on the West Coast.
The Fruitmarket Gallery, which closed in February 1991 in financial disarray, has secured new support from the Scottish Arts Council and has appointed a new director.
He is Graeme Murray, whose gallery and publishing business is known to the international community from his attendance of European art fairs including Madrid's ARCO and Art Cologne.
The artists with whom his gallery was closely involved are Andy Goldsworthy, Hamish Fulton, Roger Ackling and Ian Hamilton Finlay, whose Wild Hawthorne Press material he presented at the Fruitmarket when it briefly reopened for last year's Edinburgh Festival.
That exhibition was subsequently seen at the Tate Gallery, Liverpool, and in Madrid and is now showing at galleries in Amsterdam and the Hague.
Murray, who will be closing his own commercial operations when he takes up his new appointment at the beginning of July, faces the daunting challenge of restoring the Fruitmarket's critical fortunes.
Under its previous director, Mark Francis, who holds the current position of curator of contemporary art at Pittsburgh's Carnegie Museum, it enjoyed international recognition for its adventurous exhibitions policy.
Murray arrives in time to devise a programme for the forthcoming Festival and to supervise an ambitious campaign of refurbishment which includes opening windows at the front and on top of the building and cleaning its stone façade.
As Eurodisney opens in France, and the Minister of Culture Jack Lang is elevated yet higher by President Mitterrand, Michael Ignatieff looks at a stinging attack on French cultural politics
From the Arche de la Défense at one end of the city to the Parc de la Villette on the other, with the Pyramide of the Louvre, the Musée d'Orsay and Beaubourg in between, Paris can claim to have the most impressive monuments to the religion of culture to be seen anywhere in the Western world.
Fumaroli's book is among the first to break the consensus, to ask whether all this expenditure has revived French cultural vitality or merely made culture into a stylish prisoner of the French state.
In a biting attack on what he acidly calls ‘a micro climate of organised euphoria’, Fumaroli argues that Jacques Lang and François Mitterrand have transformed Paris from a living centre of artistic life into a cultural Disneyland.
If you venture past the crowds to see the Poussins, you find yourself alone with a collection which is as lamentably hung as ever.
Paintings which beg to be viewed at a distance, one by one, are squeezed together in a room as narrow, bare and poorly lit as a urinal in an airport.
The Tate and the National Gallery cannot claim a magnificent entryway, but the London curators have displayed their collection with a respect which puts the Louvre to shame.
For Fumaroli, the Louvre is a perfect example of the triumph of the politics of bella figura, and the transformation of a great cultural treasure into a monument to the pharaonic ambitions of the President whom the Canard Enchaîné has dubbed Mitterramses the First.
(Like the American conservatives, Leo Strauss and Alan Bloom, he attributes the conversion of culture into spectacle to the decay of higher education and the hegemony of relativist, anti-humanist social science in the universities.
This is the education system, he charges, which is producing the cultural bureaucrats who are turning the national patrimony of France into an amusement park for tourists).
Fumaroli is also a latter day Tocquevillian, using Alexis de Tocqueville's critique of nineteenth-century American democracy to call into question the whole project of trying to democratise culture for the masses.
The book, which is fierce, elegant and utterly unsparing is bound to enrage anyone who takes for granted the necessity of State funding for the arts.
But it makes the strongest case I have ever read for reassessing the role of the post-war welfare state in the cultural field, and will force even those who are not convinced by his arguments to sharpen up their own.
Fumaroli's book is a polemic and he takes a savage pleasure in destructive rather than constructive criticism of Jack Lang's Ministry of Culture.
In fact, the system of Republican education created by Jules Ferry after the defeat of 1870 put in place a common culture of liberal values.
Such an education was republican and democratic but it was not egalitarian: it aimed to encourage, in Fumaroli's words, ‘the only nobility compatible with political democracy’ nobility of spirit.
Post-war cultural relativism and egalitarianism has put in jeopardy France's very capacity to produce such an aristocracy of the spirit.
Under the Third Republic, Fumaroli observes, Braque, Picasso, Giacometti and Matisse received no State subsidy; nor did Proust or Gide; popular boulevard theatre was left on its own and produced the likes of Pitoeff, Guitry and Jouvet.
Emmanuel Mounier and the young collaborationist intellectuals of Jeune France were the first to propose the idea of a State culture to counter the empty capitalist hedonism, which they held responsible for the moral catastrophe of 1940.
Malraux's Maisons de Culture, which he established up and down the country after becoming de Gaulle's Minister of Culture in 1959 were actually a Vichyite idea which came into its own when de Gaulle realised that culture could become the faithful servant of Gaullist grandeur.
This association between modernism and State power, consolidated by Giscard's commissioning of the Gare d'Orsay, was brought to perfection by Lang and Mitterrand's socialists.
Fumaroli presents the alliance between culture and the State as a Faustian pact with the devil in which, in return for a steady stream of subventions and commissions, the artistic community of France has surrendered its spiritual independence.
Whereas in the Twenties, there had been a uniquely creative cultural underground, in the Paris of the 1980s, the birds of the underground have all been imprisoned in Jack Lang's gilded cage.
The incorporation of the French intellectual tradition and the artistic underground made it all the easier to hide the ideological background of the Socialist regime.
Fumaroli makes the standard conservative argument that an art that cannot be sustained by its audience does not deserve to survive.
The sober vernacular architecture of the Third Republic is supplanted by the brutal international style; sub-Brechtian theatre of alienation drives out indigenous French boulevard theatre; the subsidy of rock and roll drives out the French popular chanson of Leclerc and Piaf.
For all its talk of fostering artistic freedom and widening participation in the arts, Jack Lang's Ministry of Culture frowns upon middle-brow bourgeois culture and exclusively cultivates either the avant-garde or pop.
There was Robert Hughes's stinging attack on the New York art market of the 1980s, and in France, Alain Finkelkraut's La Defaite de la Pensée on the banalisation of the idea of culture.
In England, there has been a recent debate about cultural standards, initiated by the playwright David Hare's polemic against the cultural relativism of the Sixties.
Hare wondered aloud on television why it was that English culture had lost the ability to state clearly that Keats was a better poet, for example, than Bob Dylan.
Fumaroli's contribution to this argument is to insist that it is not so much the market which has blurred cultural standards, as much as the queasy relativism and condescending egalitarianism of State funding of pop culture.
The State approves the artistic tastes of a fashionable avant-garde elite and then uses its powers of subvention and promotion to enforce these tastes on the majority.
The consequence is a metropolitan elite of ‘spoiled children’, whose licence to provoke frees them from any need to enter into a dialogue with their audiences.
This audience, Fumaroli asserts though he does not prove the assertion with figures has not significantly changed its social composition in fifty-five years.
Whereas the Third Republic did set out to improve the aesthetic education of these citizens, the modern welfare State offers them the bread and circuses of culture as spectacle and entertainment.
Though Fumaroli does not mention Jean Pierre Goude's staging of the Bicentennial parade on 14 July 1989, it does seem to illustrate Fumaroli's thesis to perfection.
Fumaroli argues, with some justice, that Lang has lurched between invectives against the American film industry and assiduous cultural subvention of American-style spraypainters, rappers and rockers.
The result, Fumaroli argues, is that the French State supports the import of the most trivial aspects of American culture, while barring, through its own domination of the cultural field, any of the best aspects of America: its openness, democratic spirit and genuine cultural egalitarianism.
Many of the trends in France, he believes, are equally observable in other European societies, and the price they will all pay will be political as well as cultural.
After a decade of assiduous cultural promotion, he charges, France is less sure of itself, of its values and heritage, than it was before Lang and Mitterrand began.
Instead of lyric participation in common cultural activity, the French have been numbed, divided and tranquillised by the cultural politics of bread and circuses.
It is a real cri-de-coeur from a European intellectual about the incapacity of French society to honour, respect and defend the best of its traditions.
If Fumaroli fears for the future of French traditions, if he worries that his students will one day no longer be reading Montaigne and Proust, he should address himself not just to Mr Lang, but also to Mr Berlusconi and Mr Murdoch and Mr Hersant.
In fact, the dilemma of any national state in cultural terms is that it is charged with defending cultural patrimony within a world market over which it exercises little control.
Once this is recognised, then, while it remains easy to criticise the relativist confusions of Mr Lang and his colleagues, it becomes less clear that France can do without someone like him.
I have been asked to give my views on the most important events and changes in the ‘domain of art and artistic culture’ over the last ten years, which I have agreed to do, as much out of friendship for the Giornale dell'Arte (and its editor) as out of vanity (let's be honest).
The only merit of the expression is that it is vague enough to be used under all circumstances without the slightest risk; it is a favourite of official jargon today.
We ought to ask ourselves why this disquieting inflation should have taken place; we ought also to consider what causal relationship there is between ‘artistic culture’ and creativity.
For never have the ever more numerous museums been so crowded, exhibitions so well attended, art books so glossy, the so-called specialist periodicals so erudite, and historic buildings so well ‘protected’ against decay and destruction of all kinds (although in many cases one might well ask whether there is not some confusion and contradiction between protection and son ).
Yet never has artistic creation itself whether painting, the cinema or literature (to my mind, architecture and perhaps photography are exceptions) been so impoverished, so derisory, so played out.
But has that not always been the cry, you may say everything already written, heard or said; art dead, creative spirits extinct?
I challenge you to tell me who are the Picassos, the Matisses, the Faulkners, the Nabokovs, the Stravinskys, the Richard Strausses, the Pasolinis, the Kahns and the Scarpas of our generation?
Could it not be that today's mania for ‘disseminating’ and ‘promoting’culture expressions which should be banned has actually caused the prevailing sterility?
And is not this sterility particularly evident in France, a country formerly renowned for its creativity and which, since Malraux's day, has given ‘culture’ a place of honour, to the envy often misplaced of its neighbours?
A Nabokov symposium in St Petersburg in 1990; fragments of the Berlin Wall on sale at Hamley's, the famous London toy shop: what are these but symbols of the far-reaching changes we have witnessed without foreseeing them or being able to guess at their consequences?
We are a long way removed from the 1929 Larousse dictionary's definition of the term: ‘act or way of cultivating the soil or certain plants’, with the added gloss: ‘this word is sometimes used, like the German word Kultur, to mean civilisation, though with particular reference to the Germanic peoples’!
The public spectacle of culture, the adoption of culture by the media, the standardisation of culture, the cultural discourse, cultural self-satisfaction, a slack cultural conformism, the recuperation of culture never has so much apparently been done for culture, never have the results (another word that deserves some elaboration) been so disappointing.
I say apparently because, whether in the areas of art education or of television, to name but two, nothing serious has been undertaken.
Nothing of any depth has been done to give the wider public, and especially young people, a cultural background or rather, an educational training, which transcends mere entertainment or spectacle.
And what use is it to provide more and more high-performance cultural facilities (an unpleasing phrase) if the artists who ought to be benefiting from them are lacking?
In literature, music, the cinema (at least in Europe) and painting, works of art are more cerebral than ever, more difficult, more inaccessible, less penetrable, not just by the masses whose interests are so patronisingly espoused by politicians but also (even though they dare not always admit it) by those who really want to be involved.
There is a great gulf between ‘popular culture’(excuse me if I do not try to define the term) and contemporary art.
Fiat's cultural showplace, the Palazzo Grassi, collaborates for the first time ever with a Venetian museum and produces an exhibition that is beautiful but misses the mark
The main purpose of the exhibition ‘Leonardo e Venezia’ now at the Palazzo Grassi in Venice (until 5 July) is to display the small but very important group of Leonardo's drawings preserved in the Accademia.
It is also important because, as the coordinator of the exhibition, the Soprintendente Giovanna Nepi Sciré said, ‘This is the first occasion when one of Palazzo Grassi's [owned and administered by Fiat]exhibitions has been so closely linked to Venetian public institutions.
The drawings include the ‘Vitruvian Man’, perhaps the most famous single drawing he ever made, as well as sheets related to major projects such as‘The Last Supper’ and the ‘Battle of Anghiari’.
Each of the Venetian drawings is accompanied by a group of related sheets, which are not only beautiful in themselves, but also provide a splendid demonstration of Leonardo's method of working in different media and at different periods of his career.
The selection of early Adoration studies, those associated with the Anghiari commission, and a chronologically varied series of grotesque heads are particularly noteworthy.
Another welcome exhibit was the small bronze of a horse and rider from Budapest, here given to Leonardo, whose attribution has been much discussed, which certainly deserves to be better known.
The Leonardo drawings alone would have made a fine exhibition, although not one to fill the entire first floor of Palazzo Grassi.
The organisers have accordingly taken the opportunity in the last few rooms to explore a second although only tenuously related theme, that of the possible influence of Leonardo and Milanese art on Venice at the beginning of the sixteenth century.
This is a topic which has been the focus of some scholarly discussion, partly because Leonardo himself is known to have visited the city in 1500, but mainly because Vasari, in the second edition of the Lives, stated that Giorgione had been greatly impressed by some unspecified works of Leonardo's which he had seen.
Moreover, Venetian sculpture at this period was dominated by craftsmen from Lombardy, and a number of Lombard painters are known to have produced works for Venetian clients, among them Andrea Solario, Marco d'Oggiono, Francesco Napoletano and Giovanni Agostino da Lodi, whose panel of ‘Christ washing the Apostles’ feet’from the Accademia, painted in 1500, has just been restored.
This may well have been produced in Venice, and it demonstrates how the idiom of Leonardo most probably became known to Venetian collectors and artists.
Unfortunately, the history of Venetian art in the first decade of the sixteenth century is still in many respects mysterious, not least in connection with Giorgione himself, whose oeuvre and development remains perhaps the most contentious single issue in the study of Italian Renaissance art.
At present, therefore, it is impossible to say with any confidence whether the influence of Milan was much more than a matter of banal repetition of a few characteristic physiognomic types.
To explore such a topic adequately in the context of an exhibition, given the imprecision of the phenomenon and the difficulty of obtaining the right loans to provide specific comparisons, is probably an impossible task.
These difficulties have been faced with commendable honesty in the large catalogue, which includes a number of useful specialist essays, and which will certainly be the point of departure for future research in this area.
Thus, the wizened old woman of ‘Col Tempo’ from the Accademia is shown in the same room as Leonardo's drawings of grotesque heads, to which it bears little resemblance.
In another room is ‘Christ carrying the cross’ from the Scuola di San Rocco, which was given to Titian at the Palazzo Ducale a couple of years ago, but is here assigned to Giorgione.
In a third room is the so-called Broccardo portrait from Budapest, the ‘Three Singers’ from the Pitti and the recently restored canvas from the Mattioli collection, also showing three singers, which was formerly thought to show ‘Samson Mocked’.
It is certainly interesting for specialists to see this odd and disagreeable picture, whose attribution was upheld by Roberto Longhi, but it is difficult to detect any point of contact between it and the other exhibits assigned to Giorgione at Palazzo Grassi.
Visitors will at least be reminded that Venetian art in this period was not an entirely closed world, and that Giorgione's career is far from being fully understood, but it is difficult to escape the conclusion that now is not the moment, and an exhibition of this kind is not the ideal place to explore such art-historical problems.
Fortunately, even in the last rooms there are works of splendid quality, notably the pairs of heads by Tullio Lombardo from Vienna and the Ca d'Oro.
Most visitors, however, will come to Palazzo Grassi to see a marvellous display of drawings by Leonardo, and they will be right to do so.
There is growing possibility that Andrea Mantegna's frescoes for the Ovetari Chapel, depicting episodes from the lives of Saints James and Christopher, will be recreated.
The major obstacle to the restoration of Mantegna's first documented work has always been a lack of funds, but now a sponsor has come forward in the shape of Francesco Piccolo Brunelli, an engineering contractor of Venetian origin, who lives in Africa.
The Ovetari frescoes, on which the young Mantegna worked from 1448 to 1455, were almost entirely destroyed in 1944, during a World War II air raid.
Immediately afterwards the artist Paolo De Poli, with the help of pupils from the Selvatico high school, began collecting the fragments some only two or three inches across which were then stored in a large number of boxes.
Exactly how many boxes there were originally is not certain, although it seems there may have been as many as sixty-five, all of which were sent to Rome's Istituto Centrale del Restauro in 1947.
Some of the remainder must still be at the Institute in Rome; a delegation from the Venice Soprintendenza and Padua's Eremitani Church, which owns the fragments, is due to travel to Rome shortly to resolve the problem.
Some restoration has already been done students at the Rome Istituto del Restauro worked on the contents of the boxes in the years 1954 to 1960.
Under the leadership of Paolo and Laura Mora, they reconstructed portions of fresco such as the ‘Seraph’, shown in the Mantegna exhibition which was at the Royal Academy in London and which opens in New York this month.
Since 1960 restoration techniques have progressed by leaps and bounds and light weight backing materials are now available, of which the honey-comb type would be particularly suited to the Ovetari Chapel frescoes.
The sponsor says he is willing to see the project through even though it may be a lengthy one.
This condition should not pose too much of a problem, since the minister responsible, Luigi Covatta, stated publicly on a visit to Venice at the end of January that he was willing to return the materials still stored in Rome.
Now a similar fascination is being exerted by the ongoing Barnett Newman drama as the City Council of Amsterdam have asked for yet another laboratory analysis of his ‘Who's afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue III’(1967) which was the subject of an ill-fated restoration by Daniel Goldreyer (see The Art Newspaper, No. 15, February 1992, p. 2 and No. 16, March 1992, p. 2).
The chemist P. Keune who teaches Science of Materials at two Dutch art academies asked the American manufacturers of the paint used by Daniel Goldreyer in the recent restoration of the painting for details concerning its chemical composition.
In a recent article in a Dutch newspaper (NRC Handelsblad 25.3.92), Keune was quoted as saying that the paint was ‘an industrial product with good properties for objects which have to endure a lot of wear and tear, but that it was not something to be used in restorations.
Apparently the paint will turn yellow in the dark as well as in daylight; at the same time it is resistant to any form of solvent, making the restoration almost impossible to reverse without damage to the original.
Apparently Goldreyer used ‘Heirloom flat finish/-/0007’ from McCloskey Varnish Co. in Philadelphia, an alkyd based on linseed oil.
According to Keune, alkyds prepared on the basis of linseed oil turn yellow quicker and become harder than alkyds based on soya oils.
He is also afraid that the paint may have a tendency to absorb oxygen which means that it will eventually become brittle: ‘I suspect that the paint will start showing cracks within a few decades’.
The City Council of Amsterdam has recently ordered the forensic laboratories in Rijswijk to conduct a second test to answer specific questions with regard to the condition of the canvas and the reversibility of the restoration.
Whether this new investigation has been ordered partly as a response to the assertions made by the New York firm of O'Toole-Ewald Arts Associates, whose services Goldreyer engaged just after the first report was released by the Rijswijk laboratories, is not certain.
They claimed that the two laboratory investigations performed on the painting since it was slashed with a Stanley knife in 1986 showed discrepancies which seriously undermined their validity.
According to Professor Van de Wetering, the first publicly to criticise the restoration, these discrepancies can all be accounted for by the fact that each of the three investigations were conducted to answer completely different questions.
Van de Wetering's criticisms of Goldreyer's restoration landed him with a claim in damages for libel amounting to $25 million from Goldreyer's lawyer, to which Van de Wetering has since replied by asking the court in New York to declare the claim inadmissible on the grounds that he does not fall under the jurisdiction of the State of New York.
In a meeting at the beginning of April, the City Council of Amsterdam, after having ordered the forensic laboratory in Rijswijk to conduct its second investigation, severely criticised the councillor responsible for the Arts, Mrs M. Baak, for her inept handling of the problem and her lack of initiative at crucial moments during the affair.
Born in 1948, his career in the Soprintendenze began in Genoa and then took him to Rome where he was Director of the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Palazzo Barberini for three years.
As Soprintendente he is responsible for the administration of a grant recently made available by the Italian government specifically for restoration projects under the terms of a special law referred to as ‘Roma Capitale’, amounting to about L4.5 billion (£2.25 million; $3.92 million).
‘The grant’ says Strinati, ‘will enable us to complete within a year or two some important and very urgent restoration programmes’.
‘Here we want to establish a museum to house works which at present are kept in the store at the Museo Nazionale di Palazzo Venezia: sculptures, tapestries and the extraordinary Odescalchi collection of arms and armour, one of the largest of its kind in Europe’.
He can now foresee the rapid completion of the work on Andrea Pozzo's frescoes in the apse of the church of S. Ignazio and the beginning of the project to conserve Baciccio's cupola decoration at the Gesú.
‘In the church of S. Andrea della Valle, the exterior of which has already been restored, we will set to work on Mattia Preti's grandiose but much-damaged frescoes and in Santa Maria della Pace we will restore Raphael's Chigi Chapel, also in a poor state of preservation’.
At Santa Maria del Popolo the Soprintendenza will begin work on the Mellini Chapel, which contains busts by Algardi, and the frescoes in Santa Maria della Vittoria will also be restored.
The projected campaigns will provide the opportunity to study the work of little-known and undervalued artists like Niccolò Martinelli, called il Trombetta, a late Mannerist follower of the Zuccari, who executed the absidal frescoes in Santa Maria in Aracoeli: ‘From a cultural point of view the restoration of these works will be of great importance’, says the Soprintendente.
The ordinary annual grant for restoration will be used up partly by the Laboratorio del Restauro in Palazzo Barberini, which recently restored Correggio's Borghese ‘Danae’, and partly by the needs of the five other museums which the Soprintendenza is responsible for: the Gallery in Palazzo Barberini, the Spada Gallery, the Corsini Gallery, the Museum of Musical Instruments and the Borghese Gallery.
‘The artistic heritage of Rome and Lazio is so vast and imposing that we distribute the work between us, even if according to the rules it is the Soprintendenza for Architectural Monuments which should deal with mural painting’.
The huge quantity of works which are the responsibility of the Soprintendenza means that it is not possible for all restoration campaigns to be carried out by in-house staff.
‘At the Roman Soprintendenza we hold the role of the restorer in very high esteem, and we take full account of our restorers’ periodic reports on the state of conservation of works in our museums’.
A technique using ordinary sausage skins is being employed to restore the 700 parchment rolls of documents dating from 1275 which make up the Wakefield Manor Court archive, now owned by the Yorkshire Archaeological Society.
Sausage skin is made from collagen and is an ideal material for the repair of tears as it is a natural substance and thus compatible with the parchment.
The technique was developed by Dr James C. Lewis of Imperial College, London and has been in use since the 1970s, replacing other more elaborate methods such as the use of fish bladders.
The 1400-feet of sausage casing needed for the project were donated to the owners of the documents the Yorkshire Archeological Society (YAS) by a Scottish sausage skin manufacturer.
Speaking to The Art Newspaper Sylvia Thomas, the YAS archivist, explained that almost half the one hundred parchment rolls (each roll comprising up to thirty parchments) had now been treated and that work would probably continue for another four to five years.
Energetic fund-raising by the YAS produced £81,000 including a matching grant from the government's new National Manuscripts Conservation Trust which is administered by the British Library.
Amongst the many works which were cleaned and restored for the large exhibition on Jusepe de Ribera now being held in the Castel Sant'Elmo and in the Certosa of San Martino in Naples (until 17 May), are the twelve paintings of Prophets painted between 1638 and 1643, in the spandrels above the chapel arches in the church of the Carthusian monastery.
They form an impressive series of patriarchal figures and although each one is richly characterised, only the figure of Noah can be unequivocally identified.
They are marked by a monumental presence which links them to Michelangelo's Sybils and Prophets on the Sistine ceiling, a presence made even more forceful by their compression into the limited spandrel areas.
The twelve paintings are remarkable for being executed on canvas when normally such representations were in fresco, but Ribera is known not to have been a fresco painter.
They were not in a very good state of conservation, having been drastically overcleaned in previous restoration campaigns sponsored by the Carthusian monks.
There were numerous abrasions and paint losses especially along the edges, and certain areas, for example the backgrounds, had been heavily overpainted.
The position of some of the pictures, which had left them exposed to direct sunlight for many decades, had also contributed to their deterioration.
The pictures were restored by Bruno Arciprete in the conservation department of the Neapolitan Soprintendenza, who cleaned them and repaired the damages.
The restored Prophets have emerged as works of extraordinarily free handling, characterised by the resonant reds, greens and browns typical of Ribera's palette from the mid 1630s.
Entries provide address, phone number and and service offered and (most usefully) the restorer's qualifications if any, and are arranged geographically under the relevant speciality such as furniture or works on paper.
Each section is prefaced by a short essay on the care of objects by an expert in the field and there are additional entries on security and insurance, lighting, display and transport and packing.
Sir Roy Strong provides the introduction: ‘If you have domestic help, it is not only unwise but unfair to expect them to cope with dusting and cleaning vulnerable objects’.
Bonhams' disclaimer for quality of service at the beginning should sound a note of warning: bad restoration is worse than no restoration.
The Laboratoire de Conservation de la Pierre, now in its tenth year, has organised a series of lectures on how science can contribute to the restoration of works of art.
The speakers are drawn from various countries and include Maria Teresa Escohotado, who teaches at Madrid's Complutense University, on the restoration of Spanish mural paintings (7 May); Christian Lahanier, of the Laboratoire de Recherche des Musées de France, on the analysis of high-definition images (21 May); Raul Enriquez, of the Institute of Chemistry at the University of Mexico, on the application of nuclear magnetic resonance to the study of organic fixatives in pre-Columbian wall painting (11 June); and finally Cristina Sànchez del Real, of Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology, whose subject is a project to save the archaeological site of Cacaxtia (25 June).
The Soane Mausoleum in St Pancras Gardens, London was designed by Sir John Soane in 1815–16 and is one of five monuments by that great eccentric of British neo-Classical and Romantic architecture, Sir John Soane, which the Soane Monuments Trust has restored or plans to restore as soon as possible.
These are all church memorials in the London districts of Chiswick, Southwark, Lambeth, Kensington and St Pancras, some of which are in perilous condition.
A separate list drawn up by the Trust includes ten other monuments by Soane, ranging from the column in the park at Lemmington Hall, Northumberland to an obelisk at Boconnoc in Cornwall.
Donations to support the Trust's activities should be sent to The Treasurer, The Hon Piers Gibson, 25 Sumner Place, London SW7 3NT.
In America satellite technology, video monitors and digital data links relay sound and images from the sea-bed to museum visitors thousands of miles away and Britain may soon benefit from this new type of underwater museum.
However, the unsupervised exploration of sunken treasure ships (yielding rich pickings for anyone able to fund the high costs of such expeditions) is widely condemned by marine archaeologists .
Shipwreck treasure (in particular porcelain) has proved a strong seller at auction over the past few years, witness the Nanking cargo of 150,000 pieces sold in 1986 for £10.1 million.
On 7 and 8 April this year Christie's Amsterdam realised over £ 4 million for 28,000 pieces of Chinese export porcelain salvaged from a trading junk sunk off the coast of Vietnam in 1690.
Buyers are attracted to the glamorous provenance of works recovered from the sea bed and prices are generally higher than for similar objects without such watery origins.
On 28 May as part of their Spanish sale (see p. 17) Christie's will be offering further pieces from the Maravillas Treasure (some of which was sold in 1990) comprising some outstanding items of Spanish jewellery together with gold coins and bars recovered from the wreck of the seventeenth-century Spanish galleon the ‘Nuestra Señora de las Maravillas’, wrecked off the Bahamas in 1656.
The ship was laden with gold, silver and emeralds from Colombia and unsuccessful attempts were made by the Spanish government to salvage the ship immediately after it sank.
In 1972 the diver Robert Marx, who has specialised in the salvaging of treasure from wrecks around the world, located the ‘Maravillas’ from nautical charts discovered in Seville together with a copy of the ship's cargo manifest.
Marx's attempts to explore the wreck were unsuccessful; fourteen years later Captain Herbert Humphreys Jr negotiated a deal with the Bahamian government which gave him three-quarters of the profits of all items found.
Captain Humphreys' company Marine Archeological Recovery Ltd has retrieved items from June 1988 onwards and has been consigning items for sale at auction since that date.
Of the pieces on offer at Christie's the most important is a gold and Columbian emerald cross set with sixty-six stones with a highly distinctive engraved reverse which would once have been enamelled or possibly filled in with niello (est. £150–200,000).
Also in the sale is a circular gold and emerald brooch with an open-work pattern of eighty-one Columbian stones.
The fact that the pieces have lain for 300 years under the sea bed means that they are remarkably fresh while the tight settings have ensured that the inlaid stones are still in place.
Sarah Draper, Assistant Curator of Archaeology at the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich, expresses the strongest disapproval of private wreck salvage operations and ‘treasure hunters’ who make large sums of money from salvage operations.
In general the practice of searching wrecks for treasure is deplored by the Museum: in most cases no provision is made for properly recording where items were located; only items of commercial value are salvaged and there is no interest in the wreck as an entity or the long-term conservation issues involved in raising perishable items such as iron and wood from the sea bed.
But the National Maritime Museum's Archaeology department has been cut from twelve to two people (one part-time) since 1986 as the Museum has shifted its emphasis away from research towards exhibitions and leisure activities.
Ms Draper is funded by the Museum to undertake one month's underwater excavation per year, but only off the coast of the British Isles.
She has devoted her time to the survey of the wreck of an East Indiaman lying off Weymouth; once captained by William Wordsworth's brother, the ship went down in 1805.
The painstaking work on the wreck undertaken by the amateur Chelmsford Sub-Acqua Club over the last twelve years will be the subject of an exhibition at the Maritime Museum this year.
Elsewhere in Britain a new type of museum developed in America to view the wrecks of sunken ships in situ may be used for the 30,000 ton ‘Lusitania’ torpedoed off the Irish coast by a German U-boat in 1915 with the loss of 1,198 lives.
If given the go-ahead, pictures from the wreck will be sent ashore by fibre optic cable to Liverpool by satellite.
Visitors to the Merseyside Maritime Museum, who are promoting the project with Dr Ballard, will be able to view the wreck and explore its interior with robot cameras remotely controlled from a viewing room in the museum.
Dr Ballard has already beamed live pictures from the wrecks of a Roman galley in the Mediterranean and two American warships sunk in 1812.
The project is still in its early stages but a spokesman for the Merseyside Museum noted that they are already using Dr Ballard's technology for the Jason Project IV which will take place in February next year in the Sea of Cortez off the Mexican Coast.
Underwater cameras will survey the wildlife and underwater features of the sea bed with particular reference to the species of Alaskan Gray Whale found in those waters.
A spokesman for the Merseyside Museum felt that both this project and the possible Lusitania scheme were a way of making information accessible.
The London-based, Palestinian Arabic newspaper, Al-Quds Al Arabi, has given details of the cultural pillage of Iraq during and after the Gulf War.
Immediately after the war, the Department of Antiquities in Baghdad compiled a four-volume list of missing objects; many of these had been on long term loan from the Baghdad Museum to regional museums in Iraq.
This list was sent to UNESCO last September and copies have recently been distributed by UNESCO to the Metropolitan Museum in New York, Sotheby's in London, the International Foundation for Art Research, Interpol, and the International Council for Museums.
Unfortunately the report is so lacking in detail as to be virtually useless in identifying individual objects, and there are no accompanying photographs.
For the time being UNESCO is unable to send a cultural mission to Iraq to investigate the situation, although it has had a team of experts lined up since July of last year.
Nor will it will get the green light until the United Nations is satisfied that Iraq has fulfilled all the conditions laid down in the Security Council resolutions during the hostilities.
Although it is over a year since the end of the Gulf War, the Iraqi Ministry of Culture and Information is still trying to recover various ancient treasures dating back to the prehistoric and Islamic periods which disappeared from museums in the north and the south of the country.
Communiqués issued recently by the Department of Antiquities confirm that some of these historic items are still in Iraq in the hands of merchants who are trying to smuggle them out of the country for huge sums of money.
The Director General of the Department, Muayyad Said, stated that the stolen works comprised more than 500 items representing the civilization of Mesopotamia from prehistoric to late Islamic times; more than 700 items representing the civilisation of northern Iraq; 4,500 books from the Library of the Iraqi Museum; and twenty-six crates of manuscripts from the Saddam Document Centre.
According to official Iraqi sources, the stolen items include terracotta figurines, earthenware vessels and jars, statues, flat and cylinder seals as well as metal articles with Arabic writing, gold and silver Islamic coins, and a number of clay tablets with cuneiform inscriptions dating from various periods in history.
The more than 4,000 items originally came from fourteen regional museums in Iraq and had been assembled in the seven main museums of Basra, Masan, Qadisiya and Kufa in the south of Iraq, and Kirkuk, Dahuk, and Suleymaniya in the north.
According to officials of the Department of Antiquities, the theft and destruction of these items took place during the upheavals of last March caused by the Gulf War.
This has led officials from the Department of Antiquities to offer rewards to anyone who helps them recover a lost item, as happened in Kirkuk where some people have already received between two and three thousand Dinars (less than £1) for turning items over to the Department.
Iraq has accused American soldiers of stealing important antiquities while they were on Iraqi territory during the war, and the Iraqi representative at the United Nations raised this issue after the ceasefire of last April.
Iraq also lodged a formal complaint with UNESCO during the twenty-sixth session, convened at the end of last year, where it was represented by the Minister of Culture, Hikmet El-Bazaz.
The Iraqi complaint included full details about almost all the items stolen from its museums in the hope that this would prevent them falling into private hands or being auctioned, but according to the Director of the Iraqi Museum, Sabah Jasim, this effort met with failure.
Sabah Jasim added that Iraq requested UNESCO to send a mission to investigate this matter, but agreement was not forthcoming ‘due to the obstructionism of America and Britain’.
Muayyad Said also accused American forces camped outside the city of Nasiriya in the south of Iraq of stealing antiquities from the locality of Tel El-lahm, saying that ‘while the American forces were digging in, the soldiers used their bayonets to dig up various artifacts from the site.’
He stated that the American forces caused extensive damage to the site of Ur, with its stepped ziggurat suffering more than 400 shell hits.
The ziggurat of Ur was originally built so that their god could step down from heaven into a room at the top of the structure, according to ancient mythology.
Muayyad Said also drew attention to the fact that the items stolen from the museum in the district of Dhu Qar include a copy of the obelisk of Hammurabi, a statue of Venus and a chariot of Assurbanipal as well as‘jewellery, valuable objects, and clay tablets from various periods’.
He added that the temple of Nabushakkari at Babylon had been partially destroyed, along with the temple of Assurnasirpal II at Nimrod near Mosul, the fort of Akhissar in the desert at Karbala, the Kawaz mosque in Basra, the Mar Mata monastery and the Tahira church in Mosul.
He said that the official in charge of antiquities at the Nasiriya Museum had received from the Americans a ‘very small number’ of terracotta objects dating back to the dawn of mankind and the Babylonian period, some of which had only recently been broken.
It involves the incorporation of two large rooms from the Archivio Segreto Vaticano, on the floor above, to house funerary and domestic objects of terracotta, and of other rooms which once housed Greek art.
The work, coordinated by Francesco Buranelli, head of the Etruscan and Early Italian Antiquities Department, will be partly financed by Helen Boehm (one of the Patrons of the Vatican Museums) and by the proceeds of an exhibition, ‘The Etruscans: Legacy of a Lost Civilisation’ which opened in Memphis, Tennessee, at the beginning of this month (see p.8).
This was excavated in the nineteenth century, mainly at Vulci near Florence, and belonged to the noble Guglielmi family until 1935, when Benedetto donated half of the more than 700 artefacts to the Pope; the other heir died without leaving his share to the Vatican.
She and nine patrons (Mrs Boehm calls them ‘the Angels’) each agreed to give $100,000, raising a total of $1 million, a sum to which the owners generously agreed.
While the deal was being negotiated in 1989 one of the Guglielmi family's daughters was kidnapped and ransomed for $4 million.
Decorated with magnificent sixteenth-century frescoes by Barocci, Santi di Tito, Zuccari and others, they were converted into a home for the Etruscan Museum by Gregory XVI in 1837.
The Gregorian system of arranging the exhibits will be maintained, with one room devoted to bronzes (including the famous ‘Mars of Todi’), one to precious stones, and three to vases (Attic black-figure ware and early examples of red-figure ceramics).
The original five-year ban, which expired in March this year, was made at the request of the Salvadorean government and is intended to protect the significant archaeological sites in the Cara Sucia region where stone and ceramic artifacts have been uncovered.
Similar emergency import bans have been placed on certain Andean textiles from Bolivia, on Moche artifacts found in Peru and on Maya items from the Peten region of Guatemala.
New York art dealers and collectors of classical art Larry and Barbara Fleischman have, with a donation to the British Museum, allowed the sculptural frieze from the Temple of Apollo at Bassae to be redisplayed in a greatly improved setting.
Increased floor space, a new ventilation system and improved lighting now allow the 101-foot long relief to be seen in conditions appropriate to its importance as one of the best-preserved classical friezes in existence after the Elgin marbles.
According to the Roman writer Pausanias, the temple of Apollo Epicurius was designed in the fifth century BC by Ictinus, one of the architects of the Parthenon.
After the twenty-three slabs of the ornamental frieze had been dismantled to allow work on the installation to take place the Museum's curatorial staff and classical scholars from outside were able to reconsider the original order of sculptures.
Dowel holes in the stone, associated architectural slabs and the physical evidence of the slabs themselves were all considered in ensuring that the final display should be as close to the original narrative sequence of the battle between Greeks and Amazons and Lapiths and Centaurs as possible.
Casts of missing fragments have been incorporated into the frieze, as well as an original fragment excavated on the Bassae site by Professor Yalouris and subsequently displayed in the National Archaeological Museum in Athens.
This was acquired by the British Museum last year, 176 years after the frieze itself was bought and transported to London by the British government.
The tomb of Caiphas, the High Priest of the Temple of Jerusalem who interrogated Christ before turning Him over to Pontius Pilate, has been discovered by workmen, according to an Israeli radio report.
Two bison, painted 15,000 years ago in a cave known as the Grotte de Mayrieres near Bruniquel, France, were virtually erased when Boy Scouts decided to give them a spring clean under the impression that they were graffiti.
Unesco has appointed The Conservation Practice, a UK-based multi-disciplinary practice of architects, planners and archaeologists, to prepare a conservation management plan for the Giza Plateau, Cairo.
The work will include preparing designs for planning of the archaeological exploration of the site; conservation and restoration work on the monuments; control of access to tourists and local inhabitants; additional legal measures to protect the site; and visitor and tourist facilities.
Staff from The Conservation Practice will visit Egypt for a preliminary ten-day survey and will produce the follow-up report in about two months.
The Plateau is currently at serious risk from man-made factors such as air pollution, the encroachment of nearby habitation and its unregulated sewage and rubbish, and the lack of control over how many tourist coaches visit the site and where they can drive.
WASHINGTON, D.C. A selection of Mesopotamian artefacts normally displayed in the Louvre is at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution.
Ann Gunter, the Sackler's Curator of Ancient Near Eastern Art, knew the Louvre masterworks would be in storage during the reinstallation of the Mesopotamian Galleries.
In autumn 1989 she asked her colleague, Annie Caubet, head of the Louvre's Department of Oriental Antiquities, if it would be possible to mount a loan exhibition while the objects were off view.
Of top importance are five of the Louvre's diorite statues of Gudea, ruler of Southern Mesopotamia in the twenty-second century BC.
In lieu of a catalogue, the Sackler will devote the winter 1992 issue of its quarterly Asian Art (co-published with Oxford University Press) to the show.
His magnum opus, the Corpus der Italienischen Zeichnungen 1300–1450, an ongoing project which already consists of twelve weighty volumes, began publication in 1968 with a survey of drawing in southern and central Italy; there followed three volumes on Venice 1300–1400 (1980); a monographic study of Mariano Taccola (circa 1381–1453/58), the Sienese draughtsman, miniaturist and engineer (1982); and four volumes on Jacopo Bellini (1990).
What seemed to me most significant about the period I chose to study was that this was the moment of transition between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, a transition which could best be observed and studied in drawing, which lends itself to greater experimentation.
Drawing has always preceded painting; Pisanello is at his most innovative in his drawings, as is also Jacopo Bellini.
He completed his thesis on Lorenzo di Credi and worked in Italy at the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florence and the Biblioteca Herziana, Rome, before being taken on by the Albertina, Vienna.
Dismissed from the Albertina because of his German nationality, he then worked for the Graphische Sammlung, Munich, until 1971 as a curator and then as director.
He met his collaborator of forty years' standing Dr Annegrit Schmitt (now his wife) when she presented her thesis to the Graphische Sammlung in 1952.
Degenhart achieved recognition in 1937 when he published his study entitled Zur Graphologie der Handzeichnungen, which forms the foundation of the methodology and structure of the Corpus.
What I mean by the ‘graphology’ of drawing is the study of the line, of the pure graphic quality, of the stroke, not that of the subject represented or the style.
Through the study of line we can identify the characteristics which differentiate one School from another perhaps not the hands, but the Schools certainly.
Through this it is possible to orient oneself amidst the various schools and to make sense of the anonymous drawings, which constitute the majority.’
The publications of Degenhart and Annegrit Schmitt have succeeded in bringing into the mainstream of art history the study of artist's pattern books and travel notebooks, which were so important for the dissemination of ideas and motifs, as well as book illustration and marginalia drawings.
Their studies have also led to some surprising conclusions concerning chronology: Jacopo Bellini's Paris album they have argued, contrary to most of the literature, precedes the London album, which they date to 1460–70; they have been able to date Paolino Veneto's Map of Venice in the Marciana Library precisely to around 1328, when previously it was thought to have been made in the second half of the century.
In 1952 Degenhart collaborated on an exhibition of contemporary Italian drawings and he is proud to have known personally Carrà, Manzú, Marini, Balla and Severini.
‘We are greatly honoured by these distinctions since we have truly dedicated all our lives, with passion, to the knowledge and diffusion of Italian art’.
Just as Henry Moore's career reached its apotheosis with his huge outdoor retrospective in the hills above Florence, so Caro gets the same treatment from the curator of the Moore extravaganza, Giovanni Carandente.
His show at Rome's Trajan's Markets opens on 20 May (see p. 5), with two editions of the catalogue from Fabbri Editoriale, Milan: an Italian edition, and an international one, to be published twenty days later with photographs of the forum installation.
The catalogue raisonné which the German collector Dieter Blume has been compiling since the late 1970s has now reached its ninth volume, and has a general index listing well over 2000 unique sculptures, from Caro's schoolboy efforts under the tutelage of Charles Wheeler, through his heavily modelled ‘geometry of fear’ period when he was Moore's assistant, to the more distinctive Caro of the welded steel constructions which began in the 1960s.
His work is grouped thematically as well as chronologically in this catalogue: thus the first volume covers the ‘table’ sculptures, his strange, sprawling ‘still life’assemblages made to be viewed at waist height, from 1966–78; the second and later volumes continue with this idiom, while the substantial Volume III deals with larger scale, outdoor steel sculptures.
Volume IV catches up on student work and the expressive, figurative work of the 1950s, while Volume VIII deals with a hybrid group from the 1980s which harks back to this earlier preoccupation with the body.
The volumes published so far now bear the collective imprint of Lund Humphries (the publishers of Moore's catalogue), who provide three handsome slipcases for purchasers of the complete set: but the enterprise is by no means finished, as work continues to pour out of Caro's Camden Town studio.
Besides various essays and prefaces by Blume, the catalogues include several important texts from Caro's career, including a vignette by Lawrence Alloway on the early bronzes, seminal and penetrating essays by Tim Hilton and Michael Fried, a lecture by Caro himself, and an extremely lively 1979 interview with Peter Fuller from the critic's Marxist years.
Blume's catalogue is an essential study tool for the committed student or collector of Caro, but its presentation is unavoidably prosaic: one misses the nuance and audacity of Caro if his works are reproduced postage-stamp size, sans colour and victim of dull light.
The monograph published by Prestel, by contrast, has to rank as one of the most beautifully designed and sensitively photographed volumes on a contemporary artist.
The editor Ian Barker (formerly of the British Council, now a director of Annely Juda, Caro's principal dealer) has selected a small cross-section of works, and grouped them around various themes, such as‘vessels’, ‘drawing in space’, ‘openings’, and so on , designations which enforce the formally innovative, but at the same time ‘formalist’ character of Caro's achievement.
The text by Karen Wilkin (expert on David Smith and ‘second generation’ Abstract Expressionists) is elegant and accessible, but contains few surprises.
The colour photography of John Riddy is nothing short of sensational, however, starting with plate number one, a deep purple painted steel construction from 1965 that lounges on a white New England wooden veranda.
‘Greedy hacksters’ a reviewer of 1859 called them, but this was nothing new: portrait painters in England had long been, and were long to be, vilified by the high minded.
The astonishing revival of fashionable naturalistic portraiture in our own time, after the Stalinist rigours of twentieth-century art theory, provides a fitting epilogue.
The long and complex story is brilliantly told by a relay team of scholars assembled by the Antique Collectors' Club for this handsomely produced and prodigally illustrated book.
Sir Roy Strong stumbles off the block with his opening sentence ‘The portrait was a child of the renaissance’, which seems to have forgotten about classical antiquity, but then sets off on a thought-provoking and terse survey of themes and ideas throughout the three centuries covered by the book.
The contributors seem to have been given a clear brief to provide just enough context to introduce the paintings themselves, with special emphasis on distinguishing the styles of lesser masters, and many plates showing refreshingly unfamiliar works from recent London auctions, all perhaps with antique collectors in mind.
Brian Allen enlivens portraiture's ‘Reign of Dullness, 1720–1760’, chiefly famous for the sneering of French commentators like Le Blanc and Rouquet, by discovering a earlier, more pervasive (and more constructive) Continental influence on the London portrait market than has hitherto been recognised.
Martin Postle splices detail and generalisation, so that he can move deftly from a meticulous account of Reynolds' studio practice to the perceptive observation that ‘it was not Reynolds’ style but his lack of style which characterised his work at this time as sitters danced, flirted, embroidered, sacrificed to pagan deities, or merely meditated, in the manner of Guido Reni, Titian, Van Dyck or even Michelangelo’.
Jargon and quirkiness assail him at times like passing attacks of cramp, but in the main he is always on the alert for a new ‘angle’, always individual in expression and always ready to usher the most illuminating quotations to their correct places with the discreet poise of a butler from his chosen period.
By contrast Frances Spalding's final chapter, ‘The Modern Face’, is surprisingly tentative for such an experienced writer: she obviously contemplates deserting the more endangered of Bloomsbury species the rank amateur as opposed to the merely amateurish but in the end mounts a token defence, and so damns them with faint art history.
As Giles Worsley explains in Architectural Drawings of the Regency Period, the term ‘Regency’ is technically understood to cover the period from 1811 to George III's death in 1820, but in matters concerning architecture, decoration and furniture, it is more appropriate to apply it to the years from 1790 to 1837 with the accession of Queen Victoria.
The term has also long been associated with powerful aesthetic connotations, with that which is colourfully beguiling, especially in interior decoration and furnishing, and not least in garden ornament.
Of course, it is relevant that the period under discussion also saw the triumph of the art of aquatint reproduction and of watercolour illustration, two modes that conveyed the idea of the Picturesque to the common reader.
We can witness all these in Worsley's book in which he demonstrates that architectural draughtsmanship reached a point of perfection by 1837, after which it degenerated into mere technical proficiency, when even bodies such as the Institute of British Architects condemned the use of colour and supplementary foreground activities that had previously made competition perspectives more attractive.
Far from it, for he has matched his chosen designs to the theme of the growth of professionalism in architecture from the formation of the Architects' Club in 1791 to the founding of the Institute of British Architects in 1837; and more than this, for just as architects strove for recognition in a professional world being transformed by the Industrial Revolution and new sciences, so does Worsley show us how this new breed of architect acquired technical proficiencies: in the presentation of drawings, in methods of copying and reproduction, in colour coding, and in advanced modes of perspective.
He follows by dividing his selected drawings into building types: public buildings, the country house, smaller houses, churches, urban architecture (town planning) and commercial buildings.
Alas that the RIBA's garden design book had taken away garden architecture, for that encapsulates so much characteristic of the Regency.
With the late Michael Mansbridge's book we are introduced to John Nash, to many the Regency architect par excellence(although this reviewer believes that John Buonarotti Papworth is more deserving of that accolade).
Now having said that, afficionados of Nash will turn to Howard Colvin's Biographical Dictionary of British Architects 1600–1840 to discover only 130 listed works.
For example, for Harpton Court, Radnor, built around 1805, Mr Colvin lists the outbuildings under Nash, whereas Mr Mansbridge gives the new south front to him despite its air of a Late Classical job of the 1840s.
But quibbles apart, it matters little, for to catalogue visually the complete works of an architect is, I believe, a unique achievement.
Repton is a case in point, and perhaps Mansbridge would have done better to omit works such as Repton's Sarsden in Oxfordshire that has nothing to do with Nash except for stylistic associations.
I seem to remember an American thesis writer who crashed to the ground over this contorted problem, and I am sure that both Worsley and Sir John Summerson (who contributes an elegant introduction to Mansbridge's book) would concur that mystery still surrounds the problem of Nash the draughtsman.
Apparently not a single conceptual drawing survives to demonstrate how Nash conveyed his intentions to those in his office who made his presentation watercolours.
The Irsa Verlag publishing group, specialists in art books and exhibition catalogues, and also publishers of the journal Artibus et Historiae, has announced plans to open a commercial gallery in the centre of Vienna.
The new gallery is to be managed by Josef Grabski and Barbara Wild, who was curator of the Österreichische Galerie before working at Sotheby's Vienna office.
The emphasis will be on painting and sculpture from the Renaissance and baroque periods, but the publishing group will continue to pursue its interest in related scholarly research.
A new book prize called The National Art Book Prize is to be launched in Britain, sponsored by The National Art Collections Fund and Waterstone's booksellers.
The judges for 1992 will be Tim Waterstone, founder of the chain of shops; Professor Michael Kauffmann, Director of the Courtauld Institute of Art; Michael Ratcliffe, Literary Editor of the Observer; Marina Vaizey, author, critic and editor of NACF Publications; and Paul Baggaley, a Waterstone's buyer and manager.
Yale views the purchase as a long-term commitment and already has plans for new subjects to take the series into the twenty-first century.
Two new volumes commissioned while it was still under the Penguin name are Painting and Sculpture in France 1700–1789 by Sir Michael Levey which is an entirely rewritten version of the paintings section of the French eighteenth-century paintings and sculpture volume published in the 1970s and The Pictorial Arts of the West 800–1200 by Reginald Dodwell.
in London, John Nicoll, stressed that many of Yale's plans are in their early stages but that some texts would undergo revision whilst others would probably be redone completely; some classics would remain untouched.
Mr Nicoll stressed the importance of speaking to art historians in order to canvass opinion on where revisions are necessary, which old volumes would benefit from splitting up and also what new topics should be commissioned.
The Institut für Kunstgeschichte (Insitute of Art History) of the University of Vienna is holding a conference this month (15 and 16 May) on the subject ‘The Tradition of the Art Library: New Access to Old Resources’.
Titled the Leopoldo Cicognara Conference, it is named after the eary nineteenth-century Venetian (d. 1834) who compiled the first bibliography of art-historical literature.
Cicognara's notable library was acquired by the Vatican in 1824 and forms the topic of one of the talks at the conference's first session, which is on ‘The History of Art Libraries: L. Cicognara and his models’.
Other sessions are on the recently completed project in the Vatican ‘The Cicognara Library on Microfiche’, which is divided into two parts: ‘Contents, catalogues and operation of the project’ and ‘Operation and opportunities for international co-operation’.
Finally a panel including Sir Ernst Gombrich, Elizabeth McGrath (Warburg Institute, London), and Professor Artur Rosenauer of the host institute will debate ‘The History of Art Libraries: Cicognara's influence and legacy (Quellenschriften, bibliographies, new art libraries)’.
Other speakers at the sessions will include Konrad Oberhuber of the Albertina, Vienna and Philippe Fehl from The Cicognara Project, the Vatican Library and the University of Illinois.
About twenty-five participants are expected, and the event is supported by the Samuel H. Kress foundation, whose president, Dr Marilyn Perry, will make the concluding remarks.
The Director of the State Historical Library, Mikhail Afanas'yev, has confessed in an interview with the newspaper Kuranty that, ‘Books from captured German holdings are perishing to a limited extent’.
His remarks were made when one of the locations used to store a unique collection of German literature taken from Germany in 1945 was recently handed back to the Orthodox Church, after four decades of being used as a store for the collection.
In what has become standard concern to make reparation to the Church in Russia, the authorities involved failed to think of the now homeless books.
According to Mikhail Afanas'yev, of the 600,000 German books received by the Library in the 1940s, no more than 30,000 were kept.
The Director of the State Historical Library plans to invite German specialists to Moscow in the near future to help sort out the holdings and to decide the fate of the books.
At some time in the past, under orders from above, all Reichskanzlei marks and bookplates in German books were destroyed, together with the owners' annotations.
Brainchild of Franz Burda, the company's founder, the periodical was the publisher Hubert Burda's flagship and, with a circulation of 115,000, Europe's most widely-read art magazine.
Although Burda talks of maintaining its share of the upper end of the periodicals market this has been interpreted as a delaying tactic, to allow the magazine to bow out gracefully.
The annual American Institute of Architects (AIA) International Architecture Bookfair will be held this year from 19–22 June in conjunction with the AIA conference in Boston.
Founded in 1977 by art collector, philanthropist and businessman Jan Mitchell, the prize is awarded to authors of new books which have made a significant contribution to the study and understanding of the visual arts.
The last Mitchell prize was awarded to Thomas DaCosta Kauffmann in 1988 for his book The School of Prague: Painting at the Court of Rudolf II.
In 1989 no award was made, partly because the sponsor felt that publishers were submitting books by the distinguished but small group of authors who had already won prizes, and the prize was allowed to lapse until this year.
It has been revived under the auspices of the Burlington Magazine, and there will again be two categories of prize: the main award of $15,000 and a further award of $5,000 for a first book by a promising scholar.
Judges for this year's prize are: Dr George Goldner of the Getty; Professor Arthur C. Danto of Columbia University; Dr John Golding; Professor Linda Nochlin, Yale University; and Sir John Pope-Hennessy.
Past winners include: Francis Haskell (Rediscoveries in Art); Michael Baxendall (The Limewood Sculptors of Renaissance Germany); and John Rewald (Cézanne).
