John Karter examines Clive Brittain's ambitious aims for Top Class and runs the rule over his Arc rivals
FOLLOWERS of Clive Brittain are once again marvelling at bookmakers' largesse over their assessment of tomorrow's Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.
Like many in the sport, the men who make the odds view the bold Brittain as racing's version of Don Quixote.
However, he has bagged an enviable collection of major prizes, including two Classics, the 1,000 Guineas and St Leger.
At odds of 500-1, Terimon became the longest-priced horse ever to be placed in the Epsom Classic.
‘And I never run a horse unless I think it's got a real chance.’
Boldly going where no man has gone before has brought Brittain success on an unprecedented scale.
By comparison to what Top Class undertook earlier this year, the trip to Paris will seem like a canter up the road.
In March he provided Brittain with another sizeable slice of foreign currency by finishing second in Australia's Tancred International.
The fact that he travels well is not the only thing in Top Class's favour, as Brittain explains.
‘Like so many of High Top's stock, Top Class is developing late.
It's the race of his life and he should get the result of his life.’
‘I've told Michael Roberts to come a lot later this time,’ Brittain says.’
That will take some nerve from the South African jockey, whose final flourish on Mtoto last year failed so narrowly.
Golden Pheasant was sold to a Californian millionaire, Bruce McNall, despite Brittain offering to buy the horse himself.
EVER since Neil Adams retired, Densign White has been the spokesman and leader of the British men's judo squad.
He went straight back on to the mat to work with his judo partner of a decade and more, Brown.
It is a tough uncompromising business, and one where a man like White seems curiously out of place.
‘If I don't go on the mat for a few days, I get withdrawal symptoms,’ he confesses.
I am getting thrown a little more, but I feel stronger and better with a lot more aggression.’
‘British men's judo is not in a very good state,’ he said, more with honesty than pessimism.
‘But we will all go and make the best of a bad situation.
Oldham's task at Gateshead may have been eased by the Tynesiders' dismissal earlier this week of their American guard, Darryl Thomas.
TUESDAY: Robson comes through unscathed against Portsmouth, as United go through on aggregate.
WEDNESDAY: Success is brief for Durie, Wood and Hobbs when they are knocked out 2-1 by Austria.
Halifax are considering legal redress after dismissing Whitehead's sentence, lengthy by normal standards, as ‘extraordinarily lenient’.
‘We were looking for 12 matches or even 16,’ David Brook, the club president, said.
Ramshaw is in a terrible mess, he will not play again this year, and he deserves better protection.’
‘The League appear to be saying that the difference between scrapping and cynical wounding is just three matches.’
Slough's home match with Clifton has also being called off following Sue Chandler's call to the colours.
With Slough absent, Ealing should take over the leadership when they travel to Ottery St Mary to play Exmouth.
The Devon side went down only 2-1 at Leicester last week, but Ealing are a different proposition.
They were actually there to obscure the original price of 80p…no wonder The Oatcake fanzine sold well at 30p.
I am not willing to be interviewed only to be compared with the chief executive of some Midlands council.
John Ferguson, Canberra Raiders wing, recalling ‘85 RL cup final when playing for Wigan.
I am not sorry I undertook the captaincy again — I genuinely wanted to do it successfully.
‘Archery is a great tonic — quiet, non-polluting and you get your ammo back!’
Perhaps we shall renew our acquaintance in Barcelona tonight, where Real Madrid have their first major test under his management.
And such a change from that of Leo Beenhakker, the urbane Dutchman from whom Toshack took over at the Bernabeu last summer.
Now the clubs are to meet again, in circumstances that could scarcely be more favourable to Toshack.
The general opinion is that Real are tighter in defence, but less interesting and inventive.
As a centre-forward, tall and crafty, he formed one of the great Anfield partnerships with Kevin Keegan.
But there was more to it than that as Swansea soared from Fourth Division to First with only a season's rest.
Relegation followed, and the hopelessly over-stretched club were sliding back towards the Fourth Division when Toshack resigned in 1984.
They won the King's Cup in 1987, and the next year finished second to Real Madrid in the League.
‘Everything I've achieved has been due to what I learned there,’ he said upon arriving at the Bernabeu.
‘Being made manager of Real Madrid, I hope, projects the name of Liverpool Football Club more than ever.
Yes, I'm laughing at that because I know Kenny Dalglish will laugh when he reads it.
He has proved himself as a coach, and any doubts harboured at Anfield about his judgement have long since been swept away.
Let Madrid and a mission near-impossible bring what it may; he has friends where he wants them.
The ATP Tour Championship next year offers a prize of $2m to be divided between the top eight players in the rankings.
Tiriac is also concerned that the Germans are beginning to take their success for granted.
‘The Davis Cup is definitely the biggest highlight of the rest of the year for me,’ Becker said.
Indeed, this week was the first time that Graf had joined up with Kohde-Kilsch since the Olympics.
PREVIOUSLY uncatchable fish are being suckered into grabbing baits and flies attached to a new ‘invisible’ line.
‘I was delivering to industry and kept a constant look-out for a suitable material.
Instead of one strand as thick as string, there were dozens of fibres three times thinner than a human hair.
‘Their marketing people had already said that the product had no future in angling,’ Chilton said.
Because of its softness and weightlessness, it is best in lengths up to a yard long.
Krystom's main impact so far has been in catching carp, the Independent readers of the fish world.
Gerald Leigh's filly, who is quoted at 25-1 for the Classic, was recording her third successive win.
‘Her dam, Brocade, preferred cut in the ground, but Free At Last likes it fast.
Her sire is Glint Of Gold, so she should not mind the rain that has eased the Newmarket going.
He may have the measure of the John Gosden-trained Anshan, running from stall 15.
LEEDS are to play their Stones Bitter Championship game against Warrington at Headingley on Thursday, 2 November.
Pitt, who played for the Valleys club in Australia, will make his Fulham debut at Whitehaven tomorrow.
RUGBY at Stradey Park when Neath are the visitors is as red-raw as Llanelli's scarlet jerseys.
It is an acquired taste for sensitive palates but a lot of hungry people are only too happy to tuck in.
There is also the diversion of a county programme in the North and West, where the competition still has more than passing meaning.
Quins need Paul Ackford fit to face Bedford far more than they do today.
Oxford begin the build-up to their Varsity defence with a bigger overseas influence than they had even last season.
Blackburn v Middlesbrough Undefeated Blackburn name full-back Sulley, who has had a trapped thigh nerve.
Galvin, Swindon's Irish winger, has recovered from injury, while Parkin returns to defence for the suspended Gittens.
Ipswich v Newcastle Ipswich's ex-Norwich winger Donowa makes his full League debut for his home-town team.
Brazil, a scorer as substitute at Hull and in midweek, keeps his place at Kristensen's expense.
Plymouth v Stoke Plymouth are unchanged — despite the 6-1 home defeat by Arsenal in midweek.
Stoke, still searching for a League win, recall £250,000 front-man Biggins, fit after knee surgery.
For Leicester, the bottom club, teenager Kitson is likely to retain his place in attack.
Jones, substituted in three consecutive games by Leeds, makes his first London appearance since leaving Wimbledon.
SCOTLAND'S national bard, Robert Burns, awarded Ayr the epithet of a town populated by ‘honest men and bonnie lasses’.
Could it be, so to speak, that all cricket will be one-day one day?
Asked if he thought Americans would now want to play more in Europe, Faldo demurred on their behalf.
Here Faldo's latest swing — which makes him stand taller — made his short game easy.
‘It was the most ridiculous shot selection I have probably ever made,’ he admitted.
He was fatigued even before the start of the fourth game when he was late back on to court.
The Pakistani fought with characteristic courage, but was unable to utilise his fearsome steamrolling style, except in bursts.
Alaphilippe did not name the drug involved, but a Dutch newspaper claimed that the test had revealed traces of amphetamines.
‘Fignon was informed in time to have a second test done,’ Alaphilippe said.
He faces a one-month cautionary suspension during which he would be allowed to race.
Instead, Robson replaced the receiver after the briefest of exchanges with Kenny Dalglish, and announced: ‘Barnes is out.
Had Liverpool been playing Arsenal next Wednesday would Dalglish have ruled him out a full five days before the game?
The loss of Barnes has brought Waddle a reprieve, and a switch to the left to accommodate Rocastle on the right.
Robson, who watched Rocastle last Saturday, said: ‘He has made a good start to the season.
Polish police said yesterday that they had called in army commandos to help control English fans.
A spokesman said 1,500 police and commandos would escort the fans when they arrived in Poland.
Fulham defender Jeff Hopkins has been recalled to the Welsh squad for the World Cup qualifier against The Netherlands as a replacement for Kevin Ratcliffe.
Within a minute Kerly had latched himself on to a Robert Clift free hit to score his first goal.
A friend of Knighton said: ‘It is very unlikely he would go to court.
Speculation was rife in the city that the Edwards-Knighton talks would agree to tear up their disputed agreement.
He would also be expected to pay a premium to put an end to the chaos.
Other players could still enter the contest, but it is increasingly unlikely that any would be acceptable to the United board.
United's match against Tottenham is scheduled for television highlights on the Wednesday, so the League suggested that City play Norwich on the Tuesday.
It has now been decided that both clubs will play on the Wednesday with 7.45 kick-offs.
Meanwhile, Nottingham Forest yesterday unveiled plans to make the City ground the leading stadium in the Midlands over the next five years.
The 105-year-old Welsh Cup will be renamed The Allbright Bitter Welsh Cup.
I certainly left the meeting feeling that way,’ Clive Rowlands, the president of the WRU, said.
Nor will the Union nor any of its member clubs permit teams under the jurisdiction to play in Wales.’
He collected his winner-takes-all prize of £27,000 after a dramatic finish.
Michael Whitaker survived one drastic moment with Next Tees Hanauer to snatch the Everest Championship from the sponsor's stable.
‘If I was him I would probably skip the French, but I wouldn't talk about it so far ahead.’
Suddenly, Dawson caught a whiff of a life he would never lead:complex, relaxed, privileged.
It occurred to him that he wasn't equipped for such a life, and the edginess sharpened to resentment.
‘He's currently appearing in hamburger medium-rare, salad, no fries and a glass of house red.
A small, battered house in a small battered terrace; the buildings appeared to be leaning on one another for support.
‘She's begun to be difficult about going to bed, so I let her sleep there.’
He looked around, as if uncertain about where to take them, then led the way into the bedroom.
He said this directly to Dawson, his tone level and low, as if countering a challenge.
Reid picked her up and she put her face into the hollow of his shoulder, both arms fast about his neck.
‘It would be a treat to get into third gear in this fucking town,’ he said.
Culley wondered whether he was hearing the tail-end of some old resentment.
She was seeing Yorke, you know, for a long time, sleeping with the guy, and Reid didn't…
She said, ‘I'm not sure what lesson I'm supposed to be finding in all this.
Is it some sort of reference to your own noble persistence  in trying to restore our marriage?
‘He fits your theory better than anyone we've come up with so far.’
‘What I would like to do,’ he told her, ‘is lick you until you scream.’
He gazed at the view from his living-room window: a quiet square, plane trees, early-morning shoppers.
Warner's voice was business-like, now, trying to mask the defeat.
You could smell it before you pulled into the yard — a hot, sour stench, heavy on the air.
Fifty yards away, behind the house, was a series of corrugated Nissen huts; one of the doors was open.
A man dressed in dungarees and a filthy khaki shirt was walking behind the beast, herding it towards the back wall.
He kicked it away from the bars, then continued to boot it as it shambled deeper into the hut.
We don't know what's gone wrong, but he's got to be stopped.’
He put a hand to his cheek and dabbed off a tear; the ammoniac fetor was crackling in his sinuses.
‘You know there's no-one else who can do this.’
Then he looked up, raising his voice so as to be heard over the sow's din.
The shallow valley was creased by a small stream that reflected the sky's dimming light.
After the chill of excitement, the ungovernable strangeness of the moment, they had waited for retribution, certain it would come.
The squaddies had gathered round the body and peered at it as rain sluiced the shattered face.
People in the village knew him by his dourness, by the distance he put between himself and them.
And I knew we were bound, whatever happened, bound to one another.
The backdrop of sky was a dull gleam, like pewter, and the great rock reared against it, a black slab.
He'd recorded a telephone conversation — a call he'd taken at home.
They must have felt pretty safe, confident, you know, because they didn't bother to use much evasive language.
It was clear that she was eager to get to the high-point of her story.
‘— that, I'm telling you, that the whole business had to be a secret.
Yorke would have been savouring the information; Susan looking at him, perhaps, with the smile still on her face.
Puzzling — since it seemed that Yorke had been listening to information he'd specifically asked for.
Shouldn't it have been Susan asking Yorke how he intended to use the knowledge?
‘Arise ’ is a registered newspaper; the publisher's name is under the masthead; you'll find me listed as assistant editor.
You don't have to like my politics, but you can't arrest me for them; not yet.’
‘Well, listen,’ Culley's tone was low and unhurried, ‘one of several things can happen here.
You can tell me the things I need to know and I can go away.
Still, I hadn't thought I was a big enough fish for this sort of attention.’
‘You never had any intention of exposing Court — that would have happened at once if  you'd intended it.
He could see the possibilities: a need to kill someone; a spate of snipings; a convenient cover.
He unspooled it, ripped it from the plastic, then rolled it in his palms before dropping it into an ashtray.
A trade-off, perhaps; a time when we need to bump-up the arrest statistics…
She poured Mike Dawson a Scotch and water, and when she handed it to him, the laugh was still there.
I see people being frightened just because they're on the streets.’
Dawson was aware that she'd been combating a bout of ill-temper since he'd arrived.
Fashionable north London, six bedrooms, an acre of garden, a surveillance system, electronic gates, a road-to-house intercom.
Culley was beside his car, facing the intercom grille fixed to one of the pillars that supported the gates.
He said, ‘I want to talk about a donation you made to Sinn Fein.
I can hold my end of the conversation from here, if you'd like me to.’
He'd imagined expensive good taste — big sofas, neutral carpeting, antiques, safe pictures chosen for their investment potential.
as if he were telling the story to someone else, Culley gave him a full account of what he'd heard on the tape.
I wonder why you didn't phone your lawyer before I ever got to the front door.’
Four steel and leather chairs, floor-lights that resembled test-tube supports.
Are you trying to  hint that blood is thicker than water?’
At the first whiff of something like this, you'd hear nothing but the sound of running feet.
So bearing all that in mind, perhaps you'd like to stop talking shit.’
‘To be set up in the name of Daisy Reid, administered through a lawyer named by me.
Eric Ross took the scope from the window-sill and looked down at his killing-ground.
He rolled the disc over segments of the city, the cross-hairs neatly quartering his domain.
He found a place to kill from and set down the leather case.
Just one — since the place he'd found wasn't as secure as some.
Just a chuckle at first, but then it grew, and the images in the scope jostled with the shaking of his shoulder.
He was taken with little squalls of mirth that subsided, each more quickly than the last.
They went to the place where Ross had stood, picking their way across a rubble of brick, concrete and roofing girders.
A road circled the site — an enormous roundabout that had once contained shops, pubs and a post office.
Easy target; centre shot; no-one saw a thing.’
They could see the canvas screens, the white tapes, three uniformed men trying to keep traffic moving.
The sun was up now, and strong; he could see a quiver of exhaust gases in the air.
Culley thought of a gym after hours, a boxing ring when the bout had finished and the audience gone.
‘Have you tried dusting a brick wall for prints?’ one of them had asked Dawson earlier.
Helen had waited for five minutes, not knowing at all why, then followed him into the bedroom.
Helen's touch trickled down his ribcage, a way of using her fingernails that meant almost-pain.
It was Saturday morning and suburbia was busying itself with the tasks it likes so much.
I asked a couple of questions he wouldn't answer, then he said, ‘I'll have to go.’
‘I haven't heard from him for, well, it must be three or four days, but then often…
At one time, when she and Eric first met, Jackson had been a part of their life.
She was aware of a past neither of them had spoken of much — at least, not while she'd been there.
‘Listen,’ Francis's tone sharpened; he'd remembered something he had to say.
He spent ten minutes attaching markers to the map, then sat back to look at the result.
He took a mapping pen and wrote on to the markers the dates when the killings had occurred.
He looked again at the scatter of markers, hoping that some system of lines might appear, some focal point.
Business or hatred, there's something that stays the same — it's just that person; just about him.
You know the name, you know the purpose: to kill one person and then go home.
You'll remember not to be too greedy, to leave good intervals between them.
To pace yourself, doing enough to pay for a comfortable life and little enough to stay invisible.
Jackson stared at the map, half-focused, until the highways and streets and open spaces seemed to crawl and shift.
Angie Ross lay in bed and watched a spangle of light flicker and fuse on the wall as a breeze moved the curtain.
She thought it, then said it out loud: a whisper that broke up in tears.
No; I couldn't stay close to whatever it was in him that liked it so much.
She moved the pillow she was leaning against, and when she turned back Culley's eyes were open and looking directly at her.
He sat up, twisting the heels of his hands into his eye sockets, and looked blearily at Helen.
When she leaned forward to get out of bed, Culley reached under her arms, taking a breast in either hand.
‘He's got to make a mistake,’ Culley said, ‘or else we get lucky.’
There were ornate, wrought-iron gates fifteen feet high, maybe twenty; they were usually open.
Nicola Hammond walked rapidly along the corridor, her heels making a rapid staccato on the polished boards.
A casual glance would have made it seem that her expression was stiff with anger.
Although she couldn't see the gesture, he waved a hand as if to demonstrate the extent of her freedom.
As soon as Schmidt settled, she rose again and walked to and fro in the room pecking at her cigarette.
‘By day, it's you — eating with me, walking with me, waiting in the hallway while I have a shit.’
There are some things that we simply have to…let go.’
After a while, Schmidt asked, ‘Is there anything you would like to do today?
Jay Hammond had been Ross's sixth victim: the tennis player, taking time off for a game with a business contact.
They had stood at one set all, but Hammond held two service breaks in the third.
She liked their life together, and her conscience had never been troubled by the knowledge of where their wealth came from.
Now and then, he was able to perform a special service for one of his clients and there was a little secrecy involved.
Something might be in Jay's hands for a short while — a certain item — then it would be gone.
In Nicola, these feelings were overwhelming; and alongside them was a fierce desire to see Jay's murderers punished.
No, the people who had ordered Jay's death — they were the ones who had to be punished.
She didn't know their names; she wouldn't have recognized their faces; but she knew they existed.
When Schmidt tapped the chauffeur's arm, the man pressed a button that raised a glass panel at his back.
He leaned forward and slipped a hand into Nicola's jacket pockets, then gave her a brief look of  apology.
At one point, when they were baulked by traffic, Nicola touched the door, close to the handle and shifted in her seat.
They walked through a dapple of sunlight that shifted as the breeze shifted the leaves.
She saw the tension leave his shoulders as he hunkered down to look.
She came off the slope at an uncontrollable pace that took her across the clearing and into the trees.
Schmidt went backwards off his heels, dropping his full length on the slope, head and shoulders slamming into the chalk.
The sound of his breath as it sawed and whistled in his throat mingled with the rush and whicker of wind among the trees.
He lay on his back and looked up at the leaf canopy as it stirred and turned, sifting the afternoon sunlight.
It seemed that a dark halo enclosed the men's faces and her head filled with a sound of the sea.
Her hands slapped the wall, like someone drumming a loose rhythm on a tom-tom.
The man sitting with her on the sofa said, ‘Are the kids in bed?’
The word ‘kids’ ended with a tiny hiss and the tip of his tongue flicked out between his teeth.
The woman half-rose and the man took her arm, pulling her back down.
He looked round for the phone, found it and took it to the woman, laying it in her lap.
Use the cell phone; let the caller know as soon as you've switched off the alarms.
‘When the alarms go off in the house, they'll go on in Central Station.
Don't get boastful; don't drop hints to your best friend over a bottle of Scotch.’
An image leapt up of his house, of the front door opening, of the men going in.
We phone as soon as we're clear and the guys who're with her just walk out.
The man hit him, left hand, backhanded; he was wearing a weighted glove.
He'd bitten his tongue when the blow landed, and a splash of blood looped on to his chin.
He massaged the crook of her elbow to raise a vein and slipped the needle in.
The second man released her and went into the hall to collect two coats and a hat.
The end of the day should bring good food, good wine, good conversation and, for perfect symmetry, good news.
He cleansed his palate with a sip of iced water, then flooded it with the crisp, light taste of Veuve Clicquot.
An Indian, wearing a starched, white coat and a black bow-tie, stepped forward and refilled his glass.
But there are some who appear to stand apart from their contemporaries in a particular way.
Nina turned the fragments of food on her plate with all the delicacy of an archaeologist lifting a shard on to a  trowel.
I can't believe he would have taken much of its meaning.
You can see his own contradictions in some of the landscapes — rich, placid greens, hot ochres.’
She saw a man picking little hooks from his flesh, each barb raising a blood-bead.
‘He was working one day, painting from nature, and got caught in a rainstorm.
Nina got up and smiled a smile that was meant for no-one.
You run an intersection, looking neither left nor right but simply slapping the gas and driving across.
Ross watched as it shuttled between them, going from hand to hand across thirty feet of air.
But no; they wandered by him, offering themselves like gifts — pick, choose; pick, choose.
He hopped in and unzipped the rucksack, taking out only the scope which he pointed back towards the lakeside.
He saw the horse rise in the same fraction of a second as the recoil jabbed his cheek.
Ross fished around with the scope, looking frantically for his target, but nothing would stay still.
People were in the water, helping the fallen man; others were staying to calm the horse; everyone was moving and milling.
A couple of men rounded the plantation, going at a run towards the lake.
It should have come as a complete surprise, but the man swayed, taking Ross's fist on his shoulder.
When he saw or heard other people, he slowed to a walk until they were past, then he ran again.
For the police, it was a hell of a lot better than damn-all.
Walking from the taxi to his apartment, Ross had felt the sting and throb in his face for the first time.
He'd put his hand to the place, amazed to see it come away bloody.
Finally, he put the folder down on his desk, bit a mouthful from the sandwich and followed it with a gulp of lukewarm coffee.
He probably isn't the only man in London with a cut on his face, but it'll feel that way to him.
Some, for example, lost a couple of million, but had three or four other million to spare.
They were among those few who controlled or owned the bulk of the country's wealth and influence.
He helped to make laws, though it never really occurred to him that he should be governed by them.
A mugger might go to prison for lifting a few pounds from his victim — and so he should.
These were the descendants of the great families, the few buccaneers left in a drab world.
In any event, it wasn't necessary to know how Warner organized matters.
Warner went into the fine art business, using his friends and his influence to match buyer to purchase.
They're checking places that are empty, or seem to be empty.
He made a mess of things in the park, but it's the first time he's got it wrong.
He must have come across the low fences that separated the row of back gardens.
The faint glow from a street light showed him the outline of a hedge, neat flower beds, a black oblong of lawn.
‘This is it,’ you say, ‘I'm sure this is the place.’
He put a hand to his cheek and saw Angie's reflected image float up and drift towards him from the garden.
He sat on a kitchen chair while she peeled back the plaster he'd stuck over the wound.
‘We could go away for a bit— a break; a couple of weeks perhaps.
She whispered, ‘Wait,’ and he was inside her, abrasive, moving without the need of an answering rhythm.
The same dream — Eric walking through a throng and pausing, now and then, to touch someone on the shoulder.
While he dressed, she cried, her face in her hands to stifle the sound in case she woke their children.
I can cover the front of the house, or I can cover the back.
Fewer gardens to the right — less ground to cover, less chance of being seen.
Except that you didn't know about me when you went in, so there would be no reason for a bluff, would there?
Then I think: he'll think that too, so if I don't go to the car, he'll be waiting.
Then I think: he'll have worked that out as well, so he'll expect me to go to the car.
It wasn't permitted to take incoming calls on the pay phone in the hallway of the hotel.
They met in the lobby, which was little more than a hallway graced by a couple of wooden armchairs.
There were occasions,’ she chose her words with care, ‘when his deals were confidential.’
Next Jay told them he'd step aside but only for some ridiculous sum of money.’
‘He said he was making them an offer they couldn't accept.
‘They said that unless he backed out of the deal, they'd kill him.’
They think it was a means of killing Jay without making Jay's death stand out.
If he'd killed only Jay, it would have been easy to make connections.’
Nicola worked backwards on the bed until she was resting against the wall; she pulled her knees up and clasped them.
When she looked again at Nicola Hammond's face, she could tell that the woman's eyes were fixed, but unseeing.
He'd gone out to play tennis; then he had a lunch meeting in the city.
I woke up in the middle of the night and took all of Jay's clothes out of the wardrobe.
Whoever killed Jay, whoever ordered him to do it — I wanted them caught.
Schmidt had been able to hear the chauffeur crashing round in the woods.
He'd tried to call the man's name, but it had emerged as a slurred gasp.
‘We'd have had a visit if she'd gone straight to the nearest phone,’ Goldman observed.
‘You don't think she'll simply go to the police station and ask to speak —’
If you know people who know people you can find almost any information you want.
Schmidt had phoned a dealer, the dealer asked his wife, a business journalist, who asked a colleague on the news desk.
He asked a policeman who owed him a favour that he wanted no-one to know about.
Car and pursuer would coincide before the women noticed that they were being tracked.
At one end of the street, a man turned towards the noise and began to walk slowly back; then he paused.
Goldman's push had sent Helen backwards over a low wall, hips and legs one side, torso on the other.
Goldman had his arms round her, trapping her at the elbows, his hands clasped across her breasts.
She tried to duck out of his grip, half-succeeding, and he went off-balance.
She spun out of his arms and he  grabbed, getting her shirt collar and yanking against her movement away from him.
He was speaking to the women, but looking at Goldman who was kneeling, head lowered.
He said, ‘What?’ and tried to look over his shoulder, as if not sure who was there.
He lifted Goldman again, wrapping his arms round the man, but couldn't make him move towards the car.
Elliott got a shoulder under Goldman's arm, the other round his waist, and they shambled to the car.
His eyes flicked to the man from time to time, making sure he came no nearer.
As the car moved off, the man strode into the road as if his intention to confront Elliott had simply been mistimed.
Nicola was crying softly, held in the crook of Helen's arm, her shirt wide open.
A bank of phones, paperwork cascading over a long table, two  computers programmed to look for patterns, similarities, oddities.
She was standing close to an alcove filled with bookshelves, reading the titles like any visitor might.
She said, ‘There's got to be give and take in this.’
Cups, saucers, a small jug of milk; she made herself busy while they talked business.
Nicola had turned and was leaning against the books, her arms crossed on her chest, hands over her shoulders like epaulettes.
Culley was still ordering the information she'd given him, and the few things Helen had said on the phone.
Nicola dropped her arms and the shirt cuffs fell over her knuckles; it was a full size too big.
Helen half-turned and tipped her toes to show him the grazes on her calves.
Helen was trying to decide how much of Nicola's resolve, how much of her negotiating power, proceeded from fear.
She thought, He'll get what she wants to give him, no more.
They held me at my house, but this is where Schmidt lives when he's in London.
Nicola smiled, as if she were catching Helen out in some childishly transparent ruse.
‘I can't tell you,’ she said, ‘because not even I know that.’
Elliott got in, arching in his seat to fish in his pocket for keys.
He rolled through the space, snapping a shard of glass that sliced his jacket and put a nick in his shoulder.
A door into the hallway, a door beyond that, and Schmidt going for the french window that let on to the patio.
It allowed him a view of the patio and put Schmidt between him and the door he'd entered by.
The word was spoken as if it were part of a mystery too arcane to be rapidly solved.
‘I can see you're having trouble talking at present, so I'll give you a lead.
Coming  through the door off — balance, taking the deflected kick — he'd absorbed that.
When he stepped forward to use the other hand, something cracked into the small of his back, and he stumbled.
Schmidt took a short step backwards, then his legs went as if someone had pulled a string.
His face smashed a pane low down in the french window and went through, stippling Goldman's shoes with blood.
They stood still, the man in the room and the man on the patio, looking down at Schmidt.
Very soon, someone would come in with uncomplicated news of the day; someone ordinary, a nuclear physicist or a brain surgeon.
Across the cheek-bone was a thin line, strangely bloodless, where the skin had split.
She waited to be told, but he stayed silent, sipping, angling the damaged side of his face towards her.
She was carrying a fresh tray of ice; the cubes popped when she put them in the drinks.
She wouldn't talk to your colleagues, but she'd settle for talking to me.’
She drifted for a time, warm, letting the feeling build, her hips barely stirring.
She put out a hand and felt him wince as she found his injured eye.
‘You're a dangerous bastard,’ she said, and dropped her fingertips to his mouth to see if he might smile.
I bet I could find what all the others have; I bet I could track it down.
He was a little older than Culley, a beefy man in an out-of-date suit.
Even when he'd just shaved, you could see how his beard would look if he grew it.
The paintings can sometimes be offered at knock-down prices, given what they're valued at.
Sixth sense for smack; wouldn't know a Poussin if it moved in next door and fucked his daughter.
Binyon took a hunting-flask from his jacket pocket and poured a couple of inches into a styrofoam cup.
No-one pops into a gallery and nicks a couple of old masters on spec.
Or sometimes it's a kind of ransom — send money or we'll play noughts and crosses on your Leonardo cartoon.
We've got a reported-stolen list a mile long, but the media only cares about the sexy stuff.
‘Why would they have killed the guard and the wife — if they'd got what they wanted?’
‘Lobster bisque — not home-made, though it has the virtue of being imported.
If I told you what the wine cost, you wouldn't dare drink it.’
‘Because you're making a fuck-awful job of it.’
They're useful for bribing diplomats and other types who'd be embarrassed by a sudden influx of cash.
You can dish them out to visiting dignitaries at the end of a state visit.
He tilted the bottle to pour, and she said, ‘Yes, of course it should, you barbarian.’
If we wait until I've made the salad and grilled the chops, will the wine be ready?’
Mostly seen at the salesrooms, though; that's where all the heavy-duty stuff's on offer.
Very handy with a hip flask, but didn't look as if he could tell a Renoir from a Renault.
‘Why would you want to know about someone you're never going to meet?’
She had been amused by the easy way he'd said, ‘I lied.’
Culley raised his eyebrows and shook his head — meaning, That's what I'd like to find out.
The other was a still life, part of a series painted during a prolonged stay  in Paris.
Do you think the whole thing is fuelled by your needs, your ambition, your effort, your lust?
‘Where is’— Protheroe turned the corner of Culley's report to find the name —‘Nicola Hammond?’
They've pointed out that there's no guarantee they'll talk back.’
Not too many people see him, but his cheques arrive when the local schools and hospitals are in need.’
There was a noise on the line like the sound of a clarinettist practising in a far room.
I know about things you like to do and the people you like to do them with.
‘Can he do that, and expect to get away with it?’
Jackson was standing by a window, a little to one side, looking absently down into the street.
Now he turned, his eyes flicking from place to place in Francis's apartment.
The investigation control-room was full of cold technology; silent phones, blank screens.
Dawson rolled his left hand for a boogie-woogie riff and paddled an arpeggio with the right.
Dawson came down the scale and finished with a bass boom, index finger down heavily, thumb extended.
No-one expects you to go by the book; it's not your speed.’
I'd like to think I can call you at home if there's something I need.’
‘Are we talking about someone in particular,’ Stuart Kelso asked, ‘or collectors of paintings in general ?’
I wouldn't suppose that a cross-section of their neuroses would give similar patterns.’
They had arranged to meet at a pub in Soho, not far from Helen's flat.
Culley had the feeling that Kelso would be better value after hours and off police premises.
He broke off, nodding as if to encourage, his smile rimmed with crusty spittle.
He used to deliver messages for a few club owners on this patch,’ Culley said.
‘Well,’ Culley said, ‘it beats going to the office.’
Probably obsessive, which can be interesting or dangerous or indescribably boring; sometimes all three.
A juggler was entertaining a theatre queue, turning an orange, a book and a saucepan in an incongruous circle.
You'll have to get back, won't you, to pack a case?’
She had made a reservation at a restaurant next door to the pub where Culley had met Kelso.
I've got a space, now, that takes my life, my things, and me.
‘You're not sure that you want to be with me, but you're here with me to say it.’
A pleasure boat was moving upriver, ropes of coloured lights strung on poles from prow to stern.
At one point, he'd half-turned, almost expecting to see Mike Dawson.
A little later, he'd looked down avenues of faces, hoping it might be Helen.
His equipment was state-of-the-art, though, and he knew how to write about sea-angling.
When Culley passed, Jackson gave him a count of ten, then followed him towards the departures gate.
He liked the look of the man — about Jackson's own build, a lean, slightly sallow face.
A cross-wind batted Jackson's car and he twitched the wheel to correct the sudden drift.
He ordered a sandwich and a bourbon with a beer chaser from room service and sat by the window while he ate.
Everything in the sun was old gold; everything that lay in the shade was blue.
He stuffed a wedge of sandwich into his mouth, went to the bedside cabinet, brought the local directory back to the window.
He ran through the listings and picked out Carl Mathers because he liked the brusque tone of the ad: Enquiries.
His body was humming with fatigue and he shivered slightly, though the evening was heavy with heat.
Almost the first thing Mathers said was, ‘You're asking for something you can't get.’
He grows roses out there, a couple of acres, maybe more, front of the house and back.’
A waitress brought coffee, and a plate-sized Danish for Mathers; raisins coated with icing, the whole thing under a bright glaze.
He lifted it with both hands to take a  bite, glancing wistfully at his cigarette in the ashtray.
Mathers licked the thumb and forefinger of his right hand and opened the little wallet, then pushed it back.
He works out, you know, skis up at Mount Lemmon, plays a lot of handball and tennis.
He dropped the pastry on to his plate, crushed the burning cigarette into the ashtray and lit another.
Mathers twisted his head to pull off the bite he'd taken; he chewed for a while.
He dragged a handkerchief from his pocket and put it to  his mouth; dark sediment lifting in a subterranean cavern.
‘I'll rush right out there and shoot a cable mike through one of the windows.’
He looked back to make sure Culley was still with him.
Don't worry; he won't get so loaded he doesn't make sense.
When they got to the bar he ordered a sandwich and took a bowl of tortilla chips to the table.
As he started back to the table, the music stopped briefly, then returned, a gentle country number.
He thought Cattini must be in his mid-thirties, though it was difficult to say for sure.
He spends a hell of a lot of money irrigating so he can grow roses.
Well, that's all right; I suppose people figure he can spend his money on whatever.
Some kid wanting roses for his girl; some Indian looking for jug-money.’
‘There are things in there — paintings — that he'd sooner no-one saw?’
If I told you she was a little flaky, you wouldn't be getting the half of it.
Most of the time, she seems to be asleep — that's when she's walking round the place.’
He set the drinks down on Cattini's side of the table and left the sandwich and the tab with Culley.
She looks out every day for a knight who'll ride by, so she can unbraid her hair.
‘Perhaps I come from a long line of knights and no-one ever told me.
I had an Indian wristband she liked, got  it from one of the reservation workshops, leather with turquoise beads.
One day, she came out to the perimeter fence; another, she came into the kitchen when they were making me some food.
I said, no, but if she came out to the perimeter fence again, that'd be the time.
A dab of bruising, yellow, now, on the upper slope of the cheek, a naevus of purple on the nose.
He said, ‘If I think of anything else, can I find you here?’
First light was pearl, a thin, almost transparent shell on the underside of the sky.
Then a buttery glow leaking from horizon to horizon, flooding the mesas and outcrop rock of the high desert.
A snake paid its length out of a crevice, seeming endless because its coils were out of sight in the niche.
It hung two-thirds of the way down a nine-feet drop and kept coming, then paused.
Culley levelled the glasses and the acreage of roses leapt towards him, fat blooms, close enough to pick.
Has to be authentic — something that Kemp would expect to receive.
‘I'd guess I'm not the only guy round here with a pair of field glasses.’
Hi, there,’ he was trying the role for size, ‘your telephone's been reported out of order.
Maybe I could come in and check it out while you wait in another room.’
Mathers held the butt of his cigarette in a pinched grip, drawing smoke through his finger-ends.
There was a lot of noise; people were getting bets down on the first pair.
Carbide lamps hissed on the walls; a few had been mounted on poles close to the plank circle.
Both cocks were wearing full-drop American gaffs, curved steel, an inch and a half long.
Ira Sanchez was looking at the birds; then he glanced up to where a man was taking bets on the far side.
He nodded and the bookie nodded back, his eyes everywhere as he scanned the other faces, looking for takers amid the din.
The blue rose on stubby wings, twisting acrobatically to slip the  blow.
‘Take the risk,’ Culley said, ‘and I'll double your bet for you.’
The dun strutted a circle, long-necked, long-backed, his eye mad with delight.
He spoke into the bookie's ear, while the man stared at the ground, as if that might aid his concentration.
Sanchez walked a way off, then sat cross-legged on  a piece of rough ground.
There were buildings with no-one in them, walls gone, roofs on the slide.
We've got this far, Culley thought, so I'm going to assume that you're for sale.
Sanchez cocked his head — a parody of listening; he drew on the joint and held his breath.
Through the open doorway Culley could see activity near the pit, and shadows jostling on the walls.
I've told you that it gives me a terrific edge in any sale where Kemp's a bidder.
If I screw up, any time, you make an anonymous call to Kemp telling him what to look for.
A series of whoops came from round the pit, followed by a shout and a gabble of voices.
Kemp would talk about the land as if he knew how to live there.
The slate-coloured bird had weight and pit-craft on his side.
The phone separated in his hand and he tweezered a one-inch diameter circuit-board from the top of his desk.
The phone won't ring because there's a two-second delay to get you into the device.
You'll also hear anything that's said in the room, anytime, whether the phone's in use or not.
He put a cigarette in his mouth and waited to light it until he'd reassembled the phone.
Easiest thing for you would be a hand-held recorder with a suction-plug for the earpiece of the phone.
The Indian stood in the doorway, a duffle bag looped over one shoulder, and looked at the two phones on the desk.
To Culley, he said, ‘Well, I'd've wanted to know that too, I guess.’
Noonday patterns were blotches of yellow and umber; here and there, a column of pale green climbing a fault line.
The roses swarmed in the heat-haze, seeming to flow and recede, seeming to peak and slide like waves.
‘This one's waiting for a guy to come back from some big-shit business deal.
He'll be thirty-five, work-out pectorals, concertina of credit cards, stretch limo, company jet.
‘I'm not sure how secure that makes me feel,’ Culley said.
I might not always be there exactly when you want me, but I'll check in from time to time.
I have to spend some time with my kid tomorrow, but I'll be in and out.’
The people you mix with — friends and enemies; the fact that it's often tough to tell them apart.
Guy screws his friend's wife; the guy doesn't know it, but he's got the clap.
Broke a few windows and scared everyone shitless until Tyler Beck turned up and cooled him off.
She sat up and reached blindly for the clasp of the bra, and just for a moment her breasts swung into view.
It took him no more than a few seconds of the exchange to decide which voice was Kemp's.
Culley imagined a suit to go with the voice — well-cut, expensive, unobtrusive.
I should warn you, there are others who have the piece in mind.’
’ The man gave an address in Manhattan, then the name of his gallery, checking that Kemp had the details right.
The man said, ‘It might have to go to auction, you do understand that?’
He made the mistake of letting me in on the ground floor when he was offering a Pissarro.
I guaranteed a starting price so long as I got last refusal — he was auctioning the piece.
Other bidders found out that I could top their bids, and no-one came to the party.
And into the silence, sinuous and pin-clear, the first few notes of a flute concerto.
It doesn't follow that my life is a marathon of remorseless screwing.’
A cloistered walkway bordered the courtyard on three sides, arches supported by white pillars, on each pillar a lamp.
‘And that's what you're going to put in the report that Protheroe hasn't had.’
They are computers of immensely greater sophistication and a different type to engineers' boxes, but computers nevertheless.
After some education they turn these patterns into print, or reverse the process, turning print into acoustic events.
The numbers you request from directory enquiries are read out to you by a speech generating computer (other than a person).
Human computation is wonderfully sensitive to context; it captures the spirit in the message and turns it into the appropriate letters.
One practical goal must be to marry these two styles of computation so as to gain the best of both.
This programme of research has already brought to light unnoticed phenomena of children's different abilities to communicate in the classroom.
The database, available on CD, is being used by industrial speech technology researchers to design commercial systems.
It is a commonplace that natural human languages are vague whereas computer languages are precise.
Complex communications are rarely completely without graphical support, and graphics are rarely used without any language at all.
Neural network models of human working memory are behind our theories of stylistic structure and of graphical usefulness.
This might be less so if they realised how impressive human beings are when submitted to computational analysis.
Science can try to understand what computational change turned a chimpanzee into a conscious human being.
Which answer will help us most to ensure that life can go on on this planet?
It's virtually impossible to know which of these stories is the true one, if either of them is.
The attitude to make-believe and truth in the capital city of post-communist Ukraine is too relaxed.
The same goes for Kiev State University, one of the massive neo-classical buildings with which Kiev abounds.
Leaning against a fridge groaning with comestibles, your host tells you there is no food to be had.
In all this time Kiev itself was in the hands of the short-lived Ukrainian Republic for only a few months.
At the beginning of the twentieth century there was scarcely a single family resident in Kiev who spoke Ukrainian as their first language.
If a confused city has to have its fictions, let them at least be interesting ones.
Screen Industries Officer for Lothian Region and Edinburgh District Councils, puts forward Edinburgh's case as a film and TV location.
(The exception, proving the rule, was Brigitte Bardot's sojourn in Dirleton for Two Weeks in September — not a conspicuous success.)
Hence, images of Scotland, networked out to the rest of Britain and the world, are generally those of Glasgow.
The fact of production and the images presented have strong economic implications for the film and television industry and the ordinary citizen.
Now, of course, the economic value of film has been recognised beyond the image-building aspect.
Imagine a $20 million dollar movie made in and around Edinburgh — this could provide a £4 million injection into the local economy.
The Edinburgh International Film Festival is the longest running film festival in the world and has experienced many ups and downs.
The present Chairman, Murray Grigor, has himself made and been associated with some of the films about Edinburgh mentioned above.
With its younger sibling, the Edinburgh International Television Festival, the EIFF supplies a focus for the world of the moving image once a year.
While the Festival lives, there is a film culture in Edinburgh; and sometimes it has been barely alive.
The number of student films and non-student shorts currently being made is greater than ever before.
And this includes one of the most exciting developments of all — the advent of local, city and community-based television.
It will show Edinburgh life and Edinburgh backgrounds quite tellingly; and in a very different context from Tickets to the Zoo.
The University of Edinburgh's commercial arm, UnivEd Technologies Ltd, is the one-stop entry to its core industrial liaison activities.
UnivEd's range of services to clients in industry, commerce and government covers research and development, consultancy and training.
A fine example of collaboration is the establishment, with Syntex Pharmaceuticals, of the Clinical Research Centre at Edinburgh's Western General Hospital.
In the Centre, staff from Syntex and the Faculty of Medicine evaluate cardiovascular drugs and carry out research on circulatory physiology and pharmacology.
More and more companies and organisations recognise the benefits of buying in world-class expertise on a consultancy basis.
A number of these are housed in the Edinburgh Technology Transfer Centre, a joint venture by the University and Edinburgh District Council.
GEC Ferranti, British Gas, Procter and Gamble, Logica and Scottish Widows are just some of the major companies backing the courses.
In the case of the British, it was off with the cricket sweater and down to your marks.
It was not that the athletes who won in 1924 were any less determined or committed in their approach.
In today's world he would probably choose to run only the 200m and not the 200m and 400m as Eric Liddell did.
For a start, as there were not nearly as many competitors, there would have been fewer qualifying runs.
Today's athlete has to specialise in one discipline in one sport in order to achieve success at the highest level.
In the days when Eric Liddell ran, athletics — while no less competitive — was more of a hobby than a profession.
The number of people taking part in the sport was restricted by money, opportunity and desire.
Now there is no lack of opportunity, no less desire and the money — no longer a restricting factor — is now a motivating factor.
In 1980, Allan Wells took six months off work to enable him to train twice a day.
As he had a full-time job, he had to push an exceptional amount of training into one session.
If this was the case, the man must have been a remarkable athlete, as well as a remarkable man!
The second camp will be hosted by the University of Edinburgh and the Scottish Amateur Athletic Association from 23 August to 3 September 1992 in Edinburgh.
He was sent back to Scotland to be educated, completing his formal education with a science degree from Edinburgh University.
Instead, he was asked to train for the 400m, and won in world record time.
Liddell later returned to China as a teacher and missionary where he was interned by the Japanese at a camp in Weifang.
He died from a brain tumour on February 21, 1945, and was buried in a small garden on the camp.
The site is now marked by a Mull granite memorial stone, erected through the efforts of the Eric Liddell Foundation.
To the late Dr Melville Clark, the Reader in Rhetoric, I owe the discovery that I had some talent for editing text.
The professor, who was greatly respected and whose classes were much enjoyed, used to stage an experiment.
I hawked it around the great Guardian brains, chaps with double firsts from Oxbridge, and none could help.
I spent too many hours with my friends in a rather dingy salon in, I think, Marshall Street.
It was heated by a stove from which a heavy iron pipe ran up all the way to the roof.
I feel great gratitude now to all those teachers who were so patient with the immaturity of youth.
In particular, I feel a particular debt to those at the Edinburgh Academy who taught me how to write precis.
The discipline of distilling the thoughts of others into your own words seems in retrospect about the most useful thing on the curriculum.
Our newspaper watches for such shifts of the perception in the world of art, right across the world.
The new double post of Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de la Culture meets with some scepticism
Lang, in fact, has been able to raise culture to a position of preeminence within French politics.
Another topic touched upon by the report is the unfortunate departure of the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection, formerly based in Lugano.
Although the built heritage is to be included, it is expected that planning and listing will remain with the Department of the Environment.
As Minister of State at the Home Office (1989-90) he handled the deregulation of broadcasting legislation.
He pursued the reform of the Arts Council, in particular increasing the control of the centre over the newly created Regional Arts Boards.
Preparations for the first tour ever conducted of works from the Barnes Foundation are advancing.
Barnes officials say these changes would help shoulder rising costs of security, staff and conservation.
Pennsylvania law, however, prohibits any consideration of Lincoln University in decisions made by Barnes trustees.
The students add that much of the financial information provided to the court by the Barnes Foundation is either inaccurate or misleading.
No one expects the petition to amend the indenture to Barnes' will to get a court hearing before June.
So far, that legal impasse has kept the proposed sites in Japan and France from officially signing on to the exhibition tour.
A reply from the Ministry is expected within days, and all the signs are that it will be positive.
The clergy will view a positive outcome as a signal of good will, encouraging them to keep their buildings open.
Further decisions are evidently being postponed until an answer has been received from Rome.
They also came across Matisse sketches and two fake stamps imitating those of well known art experts.
Who get's what in the post-Soviet fall-out
On 19 February, the Russian Supreme Soviet suspended the Agreement on Returning Cultural and Historical Treasures to Their States of Origin.
Art specialists all agree that it is effectively impossible to put an idea like this into practice.
Ukraine has also laid claim to the late thirteenth-early fourteenth-century Monomakh Crown, considered to be the oldest Tsarist crown.
On the subject of the Agreement and the ideas of its authors are concerned, Gubyenko uses language not usually printed in the press.
Minto House is being sold to a Japanese consortium whose intention is to dismantle it and ship it to Japan.
James Byam Shaw CBE, the distinguished and much loved art historian and connoisseur of drawings, died 18 March.
A panegyric does not really go far to explain why his semi-retirement will be widely deplored.
But we may be confident he will not lapse into indolence nor renounce the activities in which he excels.
Nagasaki Holland Village Huis ten Bosch is a project which deserves a neologism all of its own.
Among the other museums on site, several rely on technology for a 3D animation theatre or a trip through the universe.
Ltd., have imported twenty-four Friesian horses to cart the endless stream of tourists from one place to another.
Each team is accompanied by an assistant whose only function is to quickly scoop up any droppings.
Early this March, this armoured car was quietly transported to the Artillery Museum, and the exhibition stands were dismantled.
Moreover, some young post-modernist artists had intended to use it in their performances.
Today one can still see these severely damaged sculptures scattered unprotected around the new Tretyakov Gallery building.
But in his first meeting with a studio executive, the young would-be producer met with incredulity.
‘Who wants to watch a movie about a queer who painted a soupcan?’ the executive demanded.
Needless to say, Hollywood doesn't give away presents without asking for something in return.
A Vogue writer recently called Glimcher the ‘personal shopper’ for the agent Michael Ovitz, a collector and head of CAA (Creative Artists Associates).
Writing and directing films are skills acquired over time, time invested by few of these artists and dealers.
Still, there may be more working against that film than Schnabel's will to direct it.
‘The spirit in architecture: John Lautner’ could have simply been a generic portrait of a cantankerous idealist in the Wright mould.
Another series has just been released on videocassette the Films of Charles and Ray Eames.
The Doucet collection has been the nucleus of the library of the Institut d'art et d'archaeologie.
This involves identifying and describing all buildings of architectural merit and all objects of artistic, historic, literary and documentary value.
The project comes under the Ministero per i Beni Culturali e Ambientali (Ministry of Culture), founded in 1975.
So far much hampered by lack of money and staff about 1.5 million catalogue entries have been completed and 2,665,000 photographs produced.
Artefacts, works of art and historic buildings need to be considered in their historical and geographical context.
As the award-winner, he is described as ‘one of the foremost structural engineers of his time…
He has made a great contribution to anchoring the art of architecture to real life, real science and real modernity…
He is the co-author of Le Verre Structurel and has written extensively on international architecture.
The National Heritage Memorial Fund has secured the future of the outstanding Jacobean house Burton Constable and its contents.
Under the present scheme the Foundation will receive an endowment of £3.5 million from the National Heritage Memorial Fund.
This will include both initial restoration work and the annual deficit on running the house and opening it to the public.
Other houses under the Fund's care to use such a system include Thirlestane Castle, Scotland, and Paxton House, Berwick.
The 70% restoration grant from English Heritage in the 1970s means that the house is currently in good structural condition.
Polish Count recovers Leonardo's ‘Lady with the Ermine’ from the Communists and donates it to a foundation
In Poland, Communism trundled in on the back of a tank, with a provisional government shooting from the hip with edicts and expropriations.
Their masters were either dead or absent in a concentration camp, in the Polish army in the West or else in the underground army.
Those contents that remained were either plundered by the aparatchiks of the new regime or dumped in some local museum.
Meanwhile the owners or their descendants champ impatiently to recover and lovingly restore what is left of the family heritage.
In September 1991 he managed to recover possession of the Czartoryski Museum and Library in Krakow, lock, stock and barrel.
It is desperately looking for advice, help or just moral support from museums and institutions in the west.
The list was given wider circulation by the monthly art newspaper Kunstavisen in its January/February 1992 number.
The lawyer acting on behalf of the dealer argued that Sotheby's should have stated explicitly that no such certificate accompanied the work.
The presiding judge did not find this explanation acceptable and ordered the payment to be made within two days.
An independent Akademie der Künste where the artists will have to double as sponsors
The artists are expected to act as sponsors too, by creating works for the Akademie at half their normal rates.
But Caro's enthusiasm was unleashed when he visited Rome in May of last year and was shown Trajan's Markets.
That model, with miniature versions of his sculptures, was shown at the Accademia Italiana in Rutland Gate in February.
The sculpture received a fresh coat of paint in 1975 and will be repainted if it is scratched or damaged.
‘The Tower of Discovery’(1991), the culmination of that exercise, is at present on exhibition in Seville.
This is the first time these outstanding glazed ceramics and porcelain celadons have been exhibited outside Japan.
Several exhibitions have recently displayed the art branded as ‘degenerate’ by the Nazis in their notorious show of 1937.
The show evolved out of a seminar on Bernhard Hoetger, an artist who is represented by several works.
The exhibition is the initiative of the Australia-Japan Foundation in Australia and the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo.
With general interest in Australia running at a reasonably high level in Japan, the exhibition is expected to attract some 250,000 visitors.
The Lyon show opens on 6 May, Lodz opens on 22 May and both close on 27 September.
Exhibition recovers missing works (maybe only 50% from this period survive) and provides clues for his development
Ten years later, in 1986, Larry Gagosian showed a selection of the White and the Black Paintings in his gallery in New York.
But the present exhibition is more comprehensive and, with its accompanying monograph, reveals an even more precocious and diverse artist.
Disappointingly, the exhibition omits Rauschenberg's portrait and still-life photography, which is richly illustrated in the catalogue.
‘Louis I. Kahn: In the Realm of Architecture’ is the first international retrospective dedicated to the work of the American modernist architect.
Yet ironically, Kahn has received little recognition outside narrow architectural circles while many of his pupils have had considerable popular success.
Robert Geddes, Robert Venturi, Denise Scott Brown and Romaldo Giurgola have all become well-known names.
Known for his quirky sayings, Kahn taught his pupils always to ask the building what it wanted to be.
In his introductory essay, Vincent Scully maintains that Kahn would be disappointed by contemporary architecture and the work of his followers.
A group of grisaille paintings, on unprepared canvas and resembling sculpted reliefs, has been loaned from the Bassano Museum.
In addition, the Farsetti Collection of terracottas from the Hermitage are on show concurrently at the Ca' d'Oro.
The current strength of decorative art at auction is another indicator of this trend (see p. 17).
For the British section of the exhibition Mr Turner has included works by Knox, Ashbee and Mackintosh as well as less familiar names.
This is only the second time in post-war history that war booty art treasures have been put on view.
Every one of the 364 items which found their way to the museum after the war is still there, intact.
They may consider that the exhibition of works from war booty collections should become an established practice.
It has even been suggested that the fate of trophy items should be decided openly by a referendum.
In the meanwhile, restorer Saveli Yamshchikov thinks that some of this war booty is already seeping out of the country.
Much of the Guildhall Art Gallery collection has been in store since the destruction of the gallery in the last war.
The historical sections of the exhibition include early charters, manuscripts, views of London before and after the Great Fire.
Palazzo Spinola will show material from the first half of the seventeenth century, while the latter half will appear in the Palazzo Reale.
Unknown or overlooked by most museum professionals, a series of major international art exhibitions has been enjoying unusual success in the Tennessee capital.
‘WONDERS: The Memphis International Cultural Series’ has already raised this Southern town a rung or two on the nation's cultural ladder.
The Turkish show is especially significant, in that for years Turkish law prohibited even the temporary removal of objects from museums.
The rule was only recently repealed in 1987, for the exhibition, ‘The Age of Sultan Suleyman, the Magnificent’.
An indication of the enthusiasm ‘WONDERS’ generates is the fact that more than 1,700 volunteers devoted fifty hours each to the 1991 show.
The accompanying media blitz is truly a thing of wonder rivalling or surpassing that of any US museum.
‘WONDERS’ hires an advertising agency to design a logo and emblazons it on 10,000 posters, ten billboards and a million brochures.
They put the device on 200 pennants suspended from utility poles, and paint it directly on crosswalks in the downtown area.
Kroger Supermarkets print exhibition information, with a toll-free telephone number for reservations, on four million grocery bags.
Mr Kyle told The Art Newspaper that the shows are mounted ‘in compliance with the strictest code of museumship and presentation’.
Since there is no curatorial staff, the ‘WONDERS’ series creates one ad hoc, engaging a world expert for the subject.
The city organises the shows independently, and invites no other major institution to play a significant part.
Alexander Gaudieri, of the Memphis Brooks Museum, pointed out that ‘Rameses’ was presented in cooperation with his museum.
None of the museums consulted has been approached as a possible venue for any of the ‘WONDERS’ shows.
In addition, ‘WONDERS’ paid the Hermitage more than $200,000 for the exhibition, and for the Russian curators to write the catalogue.
Similar fees will be paid directly to the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Turkey.
Two weeks before the show closed in Memphis, the Armand Hammer Museum in Los Angeles called and expressed interest in the ‘Catherine’ show.
The West Coast museum negotiated directly with the Hermitage, and agreed to pay a rental fee of around $300,000.
For a separate amount they purchased the exhibition package from Memphis including cases, mounts, architecture, logo, transparencies, etc.
For the ‘Ottoman’ show, Turkey has approved time for three four-month venues that are still being negotiated.
The 1993 ‘Napoleonic’ show, curated by Mr Bernard Chevalier, Chief Conservateur of the Château de Malmaison, will not travel.
Glass pyramid competition design for a Palace of Culture in Moscow (1930) by Ivan Leonidov (1902–59)(Schchusev Architecture Museum, Moscow).
WASHINGTON D.C. The National Gallery of Art is currently hosting two exhibitions as part of the Guercino four-hundred years celebrations.
Speaking of the decision, Vercruysse's dealer has said the reasons for the withdrawal are not personal.
These illustrate domestic interiors of diverse social classes, from an emperor's bedroom in Portugal to the bedroom of a Russian dacha.
One of the albums was compiled for the Wittgenstein family, documenting almost a decade of nomadic princely travel from house to house.
Apart from Max Klinger's superb etchings, the rest of his work has been much neglected since it fell out of fashion.
Both are half-figures made of coloured marbles, with painted hair, dyed skin, and inset amber eyes.
Here, then, is the value of his new monograph which provides a lengthy discussion of the artist's biography and themes.
‘I am fortunate to live on one of the clouds in his paintings, with the art I love so much’
‘In her original will, Georgette Magritte left her whole estate to Belgium's Musée Royale des Beaux-Arts.
When a more open attitude began to prevail, it was too late: Georgette Magritte was on her death-bed.
Works by René Magritte are consequently to be seen in museums and private collections all round the world.
Then, a few months later quite by chance, of course the same painting came onto the market.’
Looking after the copyright of an artist as prolific and popular as Magritte can be no easy task.
I am fortunate to live on one of the clouds in his paintings, with the art I love so much’.
Herscovici is also thinking of writing a book based on his long conversations with Georgette Magritte.
In front of the sculpture is a kind of chapel of meditation, octagonal in form, in which hang fourteen Rothkos.
Magritte has performed extremely well at auction over the last few years, according to Melanie Clore of Sotheby's Impressionist Pictures Department.
The bottled woman arouses desire but does not satisfy it a function similar to modern advertising.
Poster design for ‘The Merry Widow’, Irving Thalberg's 1925 silent film directed by and starring Eric von Stroheim.
The conventional format and heroic pose of the sitter are perfectly offset by the incongruity of the costume and title.
Among his publications (which also include some on sport), probably the most famous are his interviews with Francis Bacon of 1975.
The startling image of a piano encircled by a wedding ring exemplifies the notion of affinities developed by Magritte from the 1930s.
Bonn, still the seat of Germany's federal government, is a quiet, well-heeled city.
The Kunsthalle's approach will be multi-disciplinary, emphasising and investigating the links between the arts and the sciences.
Given the nature of the project, Pontus Hulten was an obvious choice to direct the artistic activities of the new Kunsthalle.
‘It would have been very difficult to appoint a director from one of Germany's regions.
The sort of people who live and work in Bonn are well educated and open-minded.
The city is somewhat isolated as the administrative heart of Germany, but the surrounding region is culturally well endowed.
‘Territorium Artis’ is Hulten's synthesis of the main developments in modern art, from the end of the last century to the present day.
It consists of 150 key works by 120 different artists, all of whom were rejected or misunderstood by their contemporaries.
It gives a view of the Earth based on satellite data and photographs, interactive computers and audio-visual systems.
SOS! will locate, catalogue and assess the condition of the thousands of outdoor sculptures throughout the fifty States.
It is hoped the survey will lead more communities and private owners to develop effective maintenance and preservation programmes.
Lancaster University steps up its bid to become academic custodians of Ruskin's papers with a Ruskin exhibition this month
Rather than produce a catalogue, the Ruskin Programme is publishing a collection of scholarly essays to mark the occasion.
After an extended period of neglect the decorative arts in Rome are about to have new homes.
The remodelled first-floor galleries occupy 16,500 sq ft of the Allerton Wing, with the Asian Studies Center directly above.
‘The Japanese usually sponsor either the East coast or West coast, and forget about the Midwest’, he said.
For instance the Johnson Collection has always been a separate time line on the first floor.
We felt that both the Johnson Collection and the museum would benefit enormously from joining one another.
Working with the museum's curatorial and education staffs, and our consulting architect, we consulted a broad group of experts.
Each came separately to look at particular aspects of the collections and the project, then there were several group sessions.
They haven't attempted to create period rooms, and they don't have the big architectural framework of our museum.
In the field of eighteenth-century art, we've had paintings, decorative arts and period rooms divorced from each other.
We have wonderful eighteenth-century objects, but would like to strengthen our holdings in the nineteenth century.
It is amazing to have three great pictures on the theme of the bather by Degas, Renoir and Cézanne.
We may not present quite as many, but we plan to continue to be lively.
Philadelphian John Graver Johnson (1841–1917) was a hugely successful corporate trial lawyer who numbered among his clients J.P.
For more than half a century, in accordance with the collector's will, the paintings occupied their own suite of first-floor galleries.
The Insurance Company Nationale Nederlanden, which owns the newly completed office block, is sponsoring the undertaking for a period of five years.
Foundation stone of Berlin's Jewish museum to be laid on anniversary of pogrom
Construction of Daniel Libeskind's bold project to enlarge the Berlin Museum should start early in 1993 and will cost around DM120 million.
The project was postponed to allow budgetary savings made necessary by the consequences of German reunification.
The National Galleries of Scotland own one of the finest collections of Old Master drawings in Britain.
He intends to merge the curatorship of the Departments of Prints and Drawings and that of Painting under the Keeper of Paintings.
Ross says, ‘The Whitney already has photographs by twenty-five artists, from Steiglitz to Cindy Sherman.
The International Council of Museum's (ICOM) fourteenth annual International Museums Day will be held on 18 May.
The event was established in 1977 to ‘increase interest and awareness of museums’ roles in society’.
This year's theme is Museums and the Environment and a database will be set up on projects completed for the 18 May.
For several years the European and American press have been proclaiming François Mitterand's Paris to be the cultural capital of the world.
The Socialist project of the Mitterrand government may be dead, but its cultural entrepreneurship continues to enjoy wide popular support.
Fumaroli is a professor at the Collège de France and a historian of ideas, specialising in the history of early modern and Renaissance rhetoric.
One looks in vain for an alternative vision of the State's role in relation to the arts.
Yet he implies that the discredited Third Republic is the model to return to.
The Third Republic's reputation, he argues, does not deserve the opprobrium heaped upon it by Gaullists and Petainists alike.
There were no cultural bureaucrats in State-subsidised theatres imposing the Brechtian avant-garde on uncomprehending audiences.
The Third Republic's record of creativity indicates, Fumaroli argues, that culture flourishes best when subsidised least.
State subsidy, he adds, does not free artists it imposes the tyranny of official taste.
If Poussin and pop, spraypainting and Seurat are equally valid cultural forms, culture loses all meaning.
This type of polemic about the decline of clear cultural standards is being heard everywhere these days.
The whole post-war attempt to democratise culture through State subsidy has failed.
High culture remains what it was before World War II, the preserve of an educated middle-class minority.
In other words, it has been incorporated within the parochial confines of party-political polemic.
If Mr Lang is trivialising the cultural heritage of France, what about the ad agencies, the movie companies, the publishing houses?
Indeed, this is the most extensive selection of Leonardo's drawings for the ‘Battle of Anghiari’ ever displayed together.
A special word of praise is in order too for the explanatory panels in Italian and English, which are unusually helpful and informative.
This is partly because of the presence of a remarkably heterogenous group of pictures displayed under the name of Giorgione.
Fragments from the Ovetari Chapel, some only two or three inches across, have survived in the Rome conservation institute since World War II
In 1976, thirty-six boxes were returned and are now kept in a strongroom in the archbishop's palace at Padua.
A complete photographic record of the paintings exists in the Anderson-Alinari archives and this will be an essential tool to their reconstruction.
His only proviso is that the work be carried out in Padua, not at the Istituto Centrale del Restauro.
Long-running serials with an American flavour have always done well in Holland.
From this it has emerged that, among other things, the paints were reinforced with polyurethane, making it tough and rubbery.
Work is also planned outside Rome in the towns of Tarquinia, Farnese, Ariccia and San Felice Circeo.
There Strinati will be collaborating with Francesco Zurli and Gianfranco Ruggeri, the Soprintendenti for Architectural Monuments of Rome and Lazio respectively.
Often works are farmed out to professional restorers who are required to register with the Ufficio Istruzione Restauri.
The documents are the longest surviving series of such records in Britain but a third of them have been unusable because of their delicate state.
After this the documents on paper which date to 1925 would form the second stage of the conservation campaign.
Local sponsors include Yorkshire Electricity and North-East Gas and an ‘adopt-a-roll’ scheme has been devised.
The canvases had been properly relined in the nineteenth century and only the ‘Hosea’ and ‘Obadiah’required new linings.
Bonhams auctioneers have produced a directory of English restorers, conservators and repairers of works of art.
The programme, which runs until June, is being held at Lausanne's Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale.
National Maritime Museum laments ‘smash and grab’ approach of private salvage operations but who else has the funds?
Significant technological advances in underwater excavation and recovery are proving a mixed blessing in the field of marine archaeology.
No other cross of such design is known, according to Mary Fielden of Christie's Jewellery Department.
Ms Draper describes the operation to recover the Nanking treasure as a ‘smash and grab’ raid.
The Museum's policy is that it is far better to leave such time-capsules undisturbed.
Furthermore it would never purchase items brought up in such a way, as this would give support to these operations.
The project is the idea of the American oceanographer Dr Robert Ballard who found the wrecks of the Bismark and the Titanic.
Using Dr Ballard's technology, a child sitting in the Liverpool museum could drive a robot investigating underwater volcanoes 5,000 miles away.
Experts say that the antiquities at Ur and Tel El-lahm date back to the Sumerian period.
The hand-over of those objects only took place after Iraq had lodged a complaint with the United Nations.
The official claimed that UNESCO's refusal to allow a mission was linked with schemes to transport those items out of Iraq.
The gallery is called after Mrs Boehm's late husband, the porcelain artist and studio founder, Edward Marshall Boehm.
The expansion was made necessary by the acquisition of the second part of the Guglielmi Collection.
Mrs Boehm feared the collection would have to be sold to save the girl.
The first room will house works dating from the Iron Age (9th-8th centuries BC).
Then comes the famous Cerveteri tomb of Regolini Galassi, which belongs to the following period, when oriental influence was strong.
The Ministry of Culture plans to sue the scouts and the Albi Speleo-Club who organised the clean-up.
Barry Stow of the Practice explained that environmental impact was the primary concern in the present case.
The result was that Ms Gunter had her choice of more than 5,000 Near Eastern artefacts.
‘When Kingship Descended from Heaven: Masterpieces of Mesopotamian Art from the Louvre’ is at the Sackler until 9 August.
Sixty years of studying the swirls, the strokes and lines by the graphologists of art history
Degenhart and Schmitt talk about their Corpus of Italian drawings in twelve volumes and still growing
Now nearly eighty-five, Bernhard Degenhart has devoted more than sixty years to the study of Italian drawings.
It would not have been possible anyway, in painting, to open up or to study so many different problems’.
Together they tour the libraries of the world, while their photo archive contains 50,000 negatives, many of which they took themselves.
‘That study was based not on preconceived notions but on the observations of structure in the drawings themselves.
The Venetians for example, have a very fluent line, whereas the Florentines construct forms architectonically.
What I am interested in is not the forms they construct, but how they construct them; I am concerned with identifying the graphological constants.
Degenhart's thesis met with the approval of Berenson at the time, but certain Italian art historians expressed hostility.
The Corpus continues apace, with five volumes on Pisanello and his School almost ready for publication.
‘We shall then deal with Stefano da Verona, with Bologna, Ferrara and the Adriatic area of central Italy.
Yet, ingratiating and inventive in equal measure, they thrived to form the longest and greatest tradition of British art.
There are remarkably few fumblings between the main historical chapters as the narrative is handed from one writer to the next.
This is not to suggest that Worsley's book is just a compilation of pretty drawings.
Here is a visual glut of generally superb photographs taken by Mr Mansbridge over many years.
It demonstrates that more can be achieved by bringing together a mass of illustration than many a pedantic thesis.
What Mansbridge did not tackle was the relationship between Nash and those who worked in his office.
Certainly Mr Mansbridge from his vantage point of above or below can enjoy our acclaim at his pictorial success.
The series was the brainchild of publisher Allen Lane and architectural historian Nikolaus Pevsner and the first volume appeared in 1953.
New books in the series will be brought out first in hard-back priced around £40.
The building in question was also used to store priceless Russian editions belonging to the State Historical Library.
Some of those remaining were sent to other libraries, while many books were destroyed in a fire.
The remaining collection includes unique volumes of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries from the libraries of the Prussian kings, and from the Reichskanzlei.
Due to a lack of adequate accommodation no precise analysis has yet been made of the ex-German holdings.
From April, Pan magazine, published by Burda Verlag, has merged with the interior decoration Ambiente, another Burda publication.
Pan will now be issued just four times a year, as a supplement to Ambiente.
Last year over one hundred publishers of books on architecture, design and construction participated in the event.
The National Art Collections Fund announced the winners of its awards for outstanding contributions to the visual arts in Britain on 15 April.
The Art Newspaper is delighted to be one of this year's winners and will use the award to build up the paper's archive.
