‘I think a lot more about it than people realise,’ he says.
He's fit and ready to run for his life.
White was a stylist then, and remains so.
Sadly, there are no points for style in judo competitions.
That was four weeks ago but it is still evident.
White is not making any rash predictions for this coming affair.
‘My main fault in the last few years, is being too laid back.
‘Now, I have decided to fight in a more open style.
We are not a rubbish team, but frankly any medal will be a bonus.’
Prince Rainier finances most of his team's annual budget of £800,000.
In the Champions Cup, Bracknell and Livingston now face the two most powerful teams in Europe.
Third Division leaders Tranmere knock out Ipswich Town of the Second.
Eddy Shah, the former national newspaper proprietor, is one of his contacts.
Knighton is reported to be ready to abandon his takeover bid.
Anywhere other than a rugby pitch it would have been common assault.
‘Either Fairbank's punishment is disproportionate, or Whitehead got off lightly,’ Brook said.
England play the Soviet Union at Luton and Leicester's game at Sutton Coldfield was an early postponement.
Slough already had Karen Brown and Kate Parker, their captain, on duty at Luton.
Sports Diary: Rugby Union: Andrew says it with flowers
But the pomp and splendour did not go down so well with Craig Chalmers.
The game afoot, he vented his embarrassment by scoring the Lions' first try after 64 seconds.
Sports Diary: Football: Disguised price rise for Stoke programme
We trust Vale chairman Bill Bell enjoyed his pen portrait.
We have now got him down to 10 pints and a bucket of chips.
Ken Roberts, Eccleshall manager, on dietary habits of 20st goalkeeper Sid Kelly.
I did not ask for the job, it was offered to me.
We have to accept this is showbiz now, not a sport.
People said I was too old in 1985, but I had confidence in my own ability.
I still have, but now my legs aren't quite as young as I feel.
Hucknall Town FC programme feature on left-back Phil Towle.
It will take a little time for me to forget the hurt and the disappointment…
I am just sorry it has all ended in this way.
Even a repeat of Hawaii Five-O will get more viewers than most sport.
Maybe Crystal Palace's Lifeline winner had no need of £1,000, or there's something unpleasant in that handshake.
Was third prize a round-the-world trip plus £500?
‘Or could they be, in any way, related?’
NOT many football clubs have had 27 martyrs on their books and beaten Real Madrid.
‘FORGET your worries, take up archery’, advised an item in a programme last week.
Sports Diary: Tennis: Chris Evert's latest bulletin on whether she intends to retire
Toshack was out of work at the time, so I passed on the offer.
It was Toshack, in Lisbon, gushing with gratitude as he rustled his contract.
But then managers are not paid to be nice.
And those with their ears to the dressing-room wall have yet to report rumbles.
With Leighton James on the wing and Bob Latchford up front, they finished sixth in the League in 1982.
But, sure enough, when Swansea's money ran out, so did the players.
Few were surprised when the champions turned to him.
The Liverpool connection remains hard to break.
Bill Shankly will be laughing somewhere up there as well.
He even had a book of ‘poetry’ published during his playing career.
It was called Gosh It's Tosh and, gosh, it was.
If Dalglish ever left, Toshack would be a powerful candidate to take over.
Tennis: Letter from West Germany: Becker boom beckons the masters
How could we possibly overlook the Schleyer Halle, the Festhalle, the Rothenbaum and the Rochusclub?
Tennis: Graf is upset by nervous second
To call Graf and Kohde-Kilsch a team on this showing is a misnomer.
They were in total disarray from the start.
At the moment Graf spends most of her time partnering Gabriela Sabatini.
Fishing Lines: Bated breath leads to web of intrigue
Out of water, Krystom Multistrand looks like a length of string.
In water, it splits like a spider's web into gossamer strands while retaining its basic strength.
Then someone tipped me off about a US material used for bow and kite strings.’
But bow strings are highly waxed and far from suitable for fishing line.
Chilton and his wife scraped together £250 and persuaded the manufacturer to produce an unwaxed batch.
As soon as the line came in contact with water, the fibres separated.
A fish can also see or sense the presence of a line.
Krystom cannot be used in the same way as traditional nylon line.
Krystom, and its inevitable rivals, is not an instant route to success.
Racing: Free to go for Guineas
Racing: Cumani's Career to take the low road to success
Fitness should be crucial at Chepstow, the jumping season's first televised meeting.
The series moves to Candlestick Park tonight for the first of three games on the West Coast.
Rugby Union: NZ undercurrent running at Stradey
The All Whites, incidentally, have their own All Black date in a fortnight.
The prop Andy Mullins, like Ackford and Thresher an England squad member, is another absentee, with a twisted ankle.
Bradford City v Brighton Adcock, City's £190,000 striker from Northampton, makes his debut.
Hull v Swindon Hull, without a win, hope to have Whitehurst back in attack.
Newcastle restore 10-goal Quinn, unfit for the Littlewoods win over Reading.
They face Gilligan, Portsmouth's new £215,000 striker from Cardiff.
Port Vale v Leicester The 1,000th competitive fixture at Vale Park.
Watford v WBA Hodges (ankle) and Wilkinson (knee) are doubtful for Watford.
Fairclough, a scoring substitute in the Littlewoods Cup defeat by Oldham, returns at centre-half.
The match is an all-ticket sell-out.
Brentford mark their centenary at home to Bristol City…
Sandwiched between Saints and Airdrie are those mercurial inhabitants of Maryhill, Partick Thistle.
There is also the chance of picking up a not inconsiderable amount of loot.
Golf: Embarrassment of choice after Faldo's harvest
Three birdie putts were from three feet and one from only a foot.
But Jahangir admitted Dittmar had never played better.
Dittmar, incredibly, tried a backhand volley return of serve into the side-wall nick.
‘If I had missed it, it might have destroyed me.’
He then gained some extra seconds of recuperation by tying up his laces.
He said the cyclist was ‘very shocked’ that he tested positive.
Football: Robson's tact is strained by Barnes blow
The manager thought his lunchtime call to Anfield was no more than a formality.
I was always optimistic and thought he would come through.’
In an era when pre-match fitness tests are commonplace, surely not?
Waddle will be the one to benefit from Barnes's absence.
Steve Sedgley of Tottenham and United's Lee Sharpe have also withdrawn.
David White and Andy Hinchcliffe of Manchester City and Ipswich's Jason Dozzell have been called in.
Tony Norman, the Sunderland keeper, also withdrew after suffering a reaction to a hand operation.
Football: Midani set to buy out Knighton
I will not speculate on anything that would upset things.’
I imagine they will sort it out between them.’
He has a 15 per cent stake in United's shares.
Last weekend it was offered to Eddy Shah, the former national newspaper proprietor, for £16m.
Oyston, along with his wife, Vicky, has a controlling stake in Blackpool football club.
Shah is also out of the United running.
‘I am a Spurs supporter and my kids would never forgive me.’
Oldham, policed by the same force, are also at home on that night, against Scarborough.
Forest also announced a pre-tax loss of £7,000 for last year.
Joe Ashton, a Labour MP, narrowly failed to gain election to the Wednesday board.
‘I think this should be the end of it.
The clubs have looked at the situation and felt it was time to change.
After clearing the five fences in the fifth round, Whitaker had an agonising wait.
Tennis: Becker names his six of the best
‘I name Borg, Connors, Lendl, McEnroe, Wilander and myself,’ he said.
‘In 10 years things change so much, and it is difficult to name one player.
‘He's put too much unnecessary pressure on himself,’ Becker said.
He has since lost the Australian, French and US Open championships.
‘Yes?’ he asked, then peered more closely, seeming to recognize Dawson.
Behind him, one of the girls floated past, completely naked, on her way to the bathroom.
She paused and looked towards the door with eyes fogged by sleep.
Dawson looked at her while North looked at Dawson.
Finally she turned and disappeared down a short flight of stairs.
North took Dawson to the kitchen and started some coffee.
‘I'm not sure we can tell you anything new.’
Dawson felt as if he were the advance party for a dawn raid.
She was wearing warm-up pants and a Lynx T-shirt.
How many men called Josh could there be?
‘I wouldn't have said she was seeing him.’
They had no work to go to, no schedules to keep.
‘What does he do — Reid?’
Dawson began to wonder whether he was really there.
‘What does he do for a living?’
Longest running show in town.’
He drank his coffee while they chatted to one another.
Culley went with Dawson to talk to Josh Reid.
An array of dark, dusty windows, like mirrors that had lost their silvering.
He spoke in a light whisper as they stood in the hallway.
Apart from the couch, there was a wooden armchair and a small drop-leaf table.
A cheap, pine bed; an old-fashioned rail-sided cot alongside.
‘That you were having an affair — had been for some time.’
They stood in a group in the middle of the tiny room, speaking in lowered tones, like conspirators.
Looking more closely, Culley saw that it was kindness.
Susan kept a room in a house owned by a guy called Henry North.
She was worried about giving over her independence; it was a token you know?
Reid spoke as if the notion offered a small puzzle.
We had a flat, quite a big one, more central.
’ It seemed that time scales were important to him.
Culley said, ‘She never lived here?’
I wouldn't call it living here.’
‘It's become necessary to go back.
We didn't hear about you first time round.’
Reid smiled at the abruptness, and Culley saw it again — kindness, gentleness; and tiredness.
You don't have to play that role, Culley thought.
‘Susan and I were still together in a sort of way.
it was a bit like being married’
The baldness of the remark made Culley start.
‘You'll want to know who.’
It seemed to Culley that she was retreating from the sound of his voice.
Dawson nosed the car out into the traffic and came to a halt almost immediately.
‘That's what you'd do, is it?’
Almost to his own surprise, he heard himself ask, ‘And would that have helped?’
Something else in Reid's face, beside the sadness and the kindness.
Culley thought back, wanting to identify it.
He heard Reid's voice:I tried to understand what she felt…
Strength was the other thing Culley had seen.
The sort of strength that allows loss and confusion and remains constant.
‘That would be his and Susan Court's, would it?’
‘This traffic's not going to move,’ Culley observed.
‘You'd better break a few rules.’
Dawson flicked on  the headlights and swung out into the path of the oncoming cars.
Helen watched Culley's face while he told her about Josh Reid and the child.
I'm sure her father doesn't know James Court; but others must have.
Just — no-one thought to mention it.
Reid was useful for that; nothing more.’
I suppose he simply didn't feel he could prevent it.
Is it Robin Culley, newly sensitive, newly observant of human foible?
Or are you saying I should have given you a child?’
Or if I'd seen it, I hadn't taken it in.
The nursery is a new hang-out for you.
I'm having trouble picturing it.’
Culley felt the anger, but had little idea what he might do about it.
He said, ‘I'm sorry,’ knowing that it was a foolish response.
She said, ‘Promising in what way — Yorke?’
‘It seems likely that he was the radical charge in Susan Court's battery.
Culley wondered why she'd decided to let him off the hook.
She went to the fridge and rummaged round.
It's the rhythm of our lives at the moment, isn't it?
Deciding whether to eat in or out.’
‘Neither do I. What would you like to do?’
Two men had met in a London flat: customer and supplier.
Later, they had spoken again, this time on the telephone.
‘You want Ross stopped; it's the only possibility.’
There was a silence on the line that Francis waited out with complete confidence.
Finally: ‘You don't think of this as your problem?’
Until then, he can leave London a ghost town for all I care.’
It was Francis's turn to be silent.
It stung the roof of Francis's mouth as he got out of the car.
The man sensed his presence at once and turned sharply.
The man said, ‘What in hell do you want?’
The sow was waiting there like an auction-block bride.
Further in, the smell was thicker, rank with ammonia; the air seemed less breathable.
Francis saw a light flicker in the man's eyes, like recognition, like pleasure.
The sow rattled the bars as the boar nosed her round the pen.
From time to time, it made cumbersome leaps, trying to mount.
Francis wondered if he'd pushed too hard.
The man's face stiffened; something closed down behind his eyes.
After a moment, he said, ‘It was never my job.’
‘You say he's got to be stopped.’
There was a question in the remark that Francis chose to avoid.
He said, ‘Someone who can get to him.
So it must be someone who knows him well.’
Francis wondered whether he ought to mention money, then decided it was too soon.
No, play on the other thing — the thing they weren't quite mentioning.
The boar gave a double hop, then lurched on to the sow's back.
She screeched while his rump heaved, her snout rammed between the bars of the pen.
He said, ‘What's the money?’
A low, scudding cloudbank was coming off the western horizon, purple with unshed rain.
Jackson took his Land Rover off the track and juddered over fifteen yards of moorland grass.
No point in lying; no point in running.
Ross and Jackson had walked off the moor and returned to base.
It was a bond between them, closer than the killing itself.
Jackson crossed a stone clapperbridge and began to climb.
The cloudbank spread, seeming to soak up the light.
He farmed his pigs with the help of a man from the village.
He came to the rise that led to Bethel Tor.
A wind plucked his hair and stung a tear from his eye.
We didn't even have to say…
He looked out across the darkening moor, its becks and mires, its hills d bony ridges of granite.
‘Bought the right shares before the takeover bid was made.’
But better still — he'd used the profits to fund an arms deal.
He doesn't usually do that; at least, it's not known that he does.
All his business is strictly table-top stuff.
Culley imagined Susan's gleeful smile as she waited for Yorke to work it out.
The arms were going to the IRA.’
‘What will you do — now that you know all this?’
Culley reeled the tape back a little and listened to the question again.
Susan hadn't known how she was being used.
Yorke was playing the role of the wide-eyed confidante.
‘I mean, you haven't in the past.’
‘I mean, it depends how much you hate him.’
‘Because, I mean, I'm telling you because we're —’
A different kind of pause, while Yorke kissed her briefly, then more lengthily.
Then he crossed the room and switched off the light.
He sat in a rocking chair that faced the door.
Alex Yorke got back to his apartment a little more than an hour later.
He closed the door before reaching for the light switch.
He said, ‘Who's there?’ and snapped the switch.
He said, ‘If it reassures you at all, I'm not Drugs Squad and I'm not Special Branch.
‘But you're not the fucking Easter Bunny, either.’
It's a democracy — at least, it was when I last  checked.
‘How long had you two been lovers?’
Yorke moved away from the door and went into the kitchen.
He rooted round in the fridge, came up with a beer, and went back to Culley.
‘When was the tape made?’
Yorke made a move and Culley added, ‘No.
Yorke took another swallow of beer and glanced again towards the cassette player, but said nothing.
‘Murder, perhaps; Susan was killed, after all.’
‘On the whole, I think I'd prefer the latter.’
Nothing worth hearing,’ Yorke nodded towards the sideboard, ‘apart from that one.’
There are half a dozen about the place — I could find them.
As soon as he'd asked the question, Culley knew the answer.
Susan Court's voice came back to him:No there…just there…like that .
He said, ‘It was careless of me to leave that one in the recorder.
He doesn't know who's got it.’
The only cause you were interested in was your own.
You were going to blackmail him.
‘And the idea was that Susan would get it for you.’
‘Her death had nothing to do with this.’
‘She wouldn't have shopped me; and she never gave me the tape.
If she had, I'd've used it.’
He lit a book match and let it fall among the tangle.
He was eager to do the right thing.
It's no business of mine to worry about how sick you are.’
But if there comes a time when I do, I'll have you then.
Don't try to use what you know.
Don't sell it; don't offer it in return for a favour.
I rarely knew the answer to that when we were married.’
‘He's been spending a lot of time round here.
I thought he might have told —’
‘It's a relative notion: a lot of time.’
‘More time than at his own place.’
‘He's got one or two things on his mind just at the moment.’
Dawson nodded, as if to say:Well then …
I remember that if it's not one thing, it's another.’
‘You came here half-expecting to find him, right?’
Finally, Helen said, ‘Someone wants him?’
If we reconstituted the paperwork, we'd have a fucking rain forest.
Robin's nominally in charge of a large slice of the investigation.
I think Protheroe would like to get the occasional report.’
‘And Robin's being a bit eccentric.’
Basically, I don't think Protheroe believes his theory.
All the killings just to mask one killing.
You have to remember that there are a lot of dead people.
If Robin gets back, or calls in…’
‘He's talking about re-marriage, is he?
Dawson made it sound like a pincer-movement.
It's a little early to be thinking about the terms of surrender.’
‘Well,’ he tried to make a joke of it.
They're either occupied or full of shit.’
Court's voice sounded inappropriately loud in the quiet street.
The intercom issued a tiny electronic hiss, but nothing more of Court's voice.
Culley leaned on the bell push until the hiss returned.
When he was inside the house, Culley noticed the characteristic he wouldn't have guessed at.
The place was chrome and glass, tiles and white paint, bare, functional.
He said, ‘I don't know what you're talking about.
I can't imagine what it is you want.’
He ended by saying, ‘Susan found the recording of your conversation with the American.
She gave it to the person who contacted you.
If he didn't, he was getting ready to.
Culley wouldn't have been surprised to see a rat-maze in the corner.
It wouldn't be difficult to show that she wished me ill.
Susan's activities must have been well known to the police.’
Culley watched him; his finger-ends were tingling.
But then water's not much of a substance, is it?
Surely there are more testing comparisons to be made.’
Thicker than love, lust, power, pain, need, greed, ambition, possessions?
‘I can't remember having cared for Susan.
The people you dealt the guns to are findable.
You imagine we don't know who they are?
Apart from the fact that you sold weapons to a terrorist organization, you dealt shares on the inside.
Every friend you've ever relied on in government would have trouble remembering your name.
‘If I were going to use this now…’
Court was wearing a light robe over a pair of pale blue pyjamas.
He'll have the details, but you won't get them.
Just  pay the money — five thousand a month, maturing in fifteen years.’
‘Then I'll be talking to the fraud squad and to Special Branch.
Culley moved close to Court, who fought the desire to flinch.
It was like watching someone push at an invisible turnstile.
‘I'll make regular checks on the payments.’
‘No-one you'll ever know.’
The purpose had fulfilled him, allowed him to find himself.
Better to look down, better to choose.
It was dawn, a time he liked well.
He took the gun components from the protective foam interior.
People on early shift were heading purposefully to work.
He would have to be fast, getting away.
Less time than that to break it down.
A man was running for one of the early morning buses.
He bounced with mirth, one arm folded across his belly, the other dangling the gun.
He roared, he bellowed, he shouted with laughter, and never made a sound.
He turned and leaned his back on the wall, gasping.
Finally, he wiped his face and brought the gun back to his shoulder.
Culley came awake in the instant before the phone rang.
As he was bringing it to his ear, he remembered that he was in his own apartment, alone.
It took him five minutes to dress and leave the house.
I don't always sleep south of the river.’
They went behind the canvases and looked down.
He said, ‘Who's this?’
The  demolition was about two-thirds complete, allowing both access and cover.
Culley stumbled on a half-brick and Dawson caught his arm.
Culley made a duck-quack motion with fingers and thumb.
‘On her way to work — local hospital, only one street away.’
Three of her friends — also nurses — had taken the same route a few minutes before.
Dawson paused by a jagged section of wall some nine feet high.
A window space, devoid of frame, gave directly on to the road.
A bathroom had been laid open like a film set.
Culley moved around in the small space close to the window.
It was hot and muscular, not a smell but something in the air.
He thought of a cage after the creature had flown.
It was the fierce residue of energy and anger, once confined, but now free.
It reminded Culley of something he couldn't place.
The canvas was down and the tapes gone.
The scene of crime team had done what they could, which wasn't much.
Cars travelled the road round the site, a stream of red and white lights.
Martin Jackson was standing where Culley had stood.
He moved as Culley had moved, pacing the little platform of cement below the window space.
Jackson sniffed the air like an animal taking a spoor.
She stood by the foot of the bed and unbuttoned her blouse.
‘No matter what happened, I'd always fall for this.’
‘I never thought that screwing you would get you back.’
Helen unsnapped her bra, shook it off, and took another swallow of wine.
‘I hope this sort of familiarity isn't going to breed anything.’
She was naked now, and kneeling on the bed still holding her wine.
She licked his face while he stroked her thighs apart.
Presently, he heard the breath whistle in her throat, a gasp, a tiny groan.
She whispered, ‘Yes, there…just there…like that.’
He kissed her face, then dipped his head, lifting her hips with his hands.
He couldn't tell whether Helen had spoken or not, but her legs forked.
He felt her shake, a tremor that came from the root.
She drew him the length of her body, and he glided into her as she kissed his mouth.
He thought of the derelict site and the broken wall.
He thought of the window-gap with its view of the canvas screen.
There had been that heat, that fierceness like a scorchmark.
A terrifying place; a wilderness of venetian blinds and vegetable plots, of smiles and nodding heads.
When Angie Ross opened the front door, she was facing the sun.
He sat on a stool by the breakfast bar while she made coffee.
She glanced at the red, uneven features, the fair hair dusted with grey.
He sat very still, his large hands resting in his lap, one atop the other.
She had filled a cup for herself, but made no attempt to drink.
Jackson watched as she began to believe the lie.
Most potently, it was something she wanted to hear.
‘He didn't say what he wanted?’
He mentioned old times, the Army, you know, places we'd been to.
The first call was really brief — just ‘Hello, it's Eric’, not much more than that.
Angie's hands were trembling slightly; she laced her fingers.
I mean, when he's on a trip, he doesn't phone every day.
He didn't say what he wanted?’
Angie wasn't sure what she was supposed to know.
At first, Jackson had seemed more or less at ease with her.
But as her relationship with Eric deepened, he'd grown wary, sometimes openly hostile.
But caught in that web were jots of evidence that Angie quite simply lived with every day.
He'd had a separate telephone line installed; she lived with that.
She knew that Eric's absences coincided with certain newspaper reports; she lived with that.
She knew the gun was there; she lived with that.
He wasn't making a lot of sense.
But he did say he wanted to talk.
A few seconds elapsed, then Angie shook her head as if to emphasize the denial.
Does he have a room he uses, somewhere he keeps —’
‘Because there might be something in there that —’
Their words ran over each other and they stopped.
The silence between them was as bottomless as a dropped heartbeat.
‘At the top of the stairs,’ Angie told him.
He said, ‘I won't take long.’
The second phone line was connected to the room.
Jackson picked up the pebble and held it until the stone warmed.
When he unfolded the map he saw it was completely unmarked.
Francis sounded remote, as if he were eating or reading.
Jackson was in a small hotel close to the city centre.
He had the map spread out before him on the bed.
‘I wondered whether I ought to organize a tap on her phone.’
He's gone from there if you see what I mean.’
His eye roved over the diagram of streets and parks.
I'll call if there's anything to report.’
Denied that focus, the media had made Culley's face and name signatures to their stories.
‘Culley, yes; but anyone — anyone who's trying to track him down.
It's also crucial to stop someone else finding him first.’
‘We don't have long.’
Almost random; there seemed to be a preference for early morning.
Finally, he peeled the markers off the map, leaving it blank once more.
Maybe there's a slight fizz of excitement when the day arrives.
Then, when it's over, you won't think of it much.
And the job consists of being efficient, being careful being precise.
Kill one, kill three, kill nine, isn't the same.
What was the crucial number when nothing was the same?
When you felt the fever, felt lightheaded, your hands trembling, your eyes hot?
You looked along the sights, just like before, just like the other times.
And what you saw there took your breath away.
No-one knew what to do.
There were daily statements by senior police officers, by the Home Secretary, by the Prime Minister.
Everything they said meant, ‘There's nothing we can say.’
Advice was given about how people might behave.
It added up to, ‘Don't go out.
Among the things he said was, ‘Someone knows who he is.’
She thought, It can't go on.
She banished the idea, and in the next moment brought it back.
He's not here, and I don't know where he's gone.
She was suddenly aware of the absence in her bed.
Five days had passed since Martin Jackson had arrived in London.
He had nothing to say, but he phoned Francis anyway.
All this going on…it's lousy timing.
And apart from that, who knows if it can work?
Old patterns, old ways, old resentments still there to fuel the disagreements.
Forget to duck —whack ; your head hits a lintel.
Miscount the stairs in the dark —crunch ; you're on your ass in the cellar.
I couldn't cope with his life, that's what it was.
Now here he is saying, ‘Have me back.
‘Were you watching me asleep?’ he asked.
She said, ‘I'll make some coffee.’
‘Let's get married so we can stop fucking.’
She made the coffee and brought it back to bed — a compromise.
Culley was lying with his hands beneath his head, gazing at the ceiling.
‘There's got to be something,’ he said.
Culley and Jackson didn't know one another, did they know the same thing.
Winged lions, sculpted in stone, crouched on the pillars at either side of the entrance.
It was Georgian, a perfect balance of elegant windows, discreet pillars and pediments.
The brick was a warm, russet colour and shaggy with ivy on the west façade.
It was a curious lapse in carefully balanced good taste.
She passed the lady and the hare with an indifference borne of familiarity.
Gunter Schmidt strode behind her, tall, white-haired, elegant.
‘We can go anywhere you like.’
Then, as if to herself, ‘Not by me.’
‘But we feel you are upset.
She went back to the window, crushed her cigarette and took another from the pack.
‘Would it be a good idea, perhaps, if you went away somewhere?’
‘Look, Nicola, you know what's going on.
But we don't live in that kind of a world.
When Jay died, it was necessary to conserve, to protect.’
The words turned her lip — something of a sneer, something of sorrow.
‘He was murdered; isn't that what you all think?’
‘A maniac,’ she said, ‘but a maniac with a purpose.’
‘It was unwise to have told you.
She sat on the chair by the window and gazed out at the wide lawns edged by chestnut trees.
She was thinking of a name: Robin Culley.
The ball had bounced on the court, then dribbled away.
Nicola Hammond had always been aware that her husband was a criminal.
He was a dealer; his business was a civilized one, and legitimate for the most part.
Or, more likely, Jay would simply match a customer to such an item and negotiate a price.
Their marriage was nothing to Schmidt, nothing to Jay's other close business associates.
They felt no grief and experienced no real sense of loss.
Robin Culley would be able to do that.
Nicola sighed, trying for the right combination of sadness and surrender.
‘It would be nice to go for a walk,’ she said.
‘I suppose there's still a world out there.’
She turned to Schmidt and pressed a smile on to her mouth.
‘Is it OK — to go for a walk?’
A chauffeur, someone she'd never seen before, brought the car to the front door.
Should we meet other people, you will stay clear of them.
‘What do you expect to find?’
She was wearing a linen jacket, underneath that a blouse and blue jeans.
Schmidt looked through the few things she brought out.
There was a lipstick, which he didn't hand back.
She slid forward on the seat while he patted the front and back pockets of her jeans.
‘I'm sorry,’ he said, then tapped the glass panel.
She felt Schmidt's corresponding move, his hand dropping on to her forearm.
In the back a woman was looking out of the open window, her chin propped on the heel of her hand.
Nicola looked directly ahead, but pressed the button to bring her window down.
Nicola's face, at the open window, was no more than three feet from the other woman's.
Their voices clashed, his sharp with alarm, hers even and conversational.
‘My husband was never a particular friend of yours, was he?’
Schmidt took a second to recover, then the concern went out of his face.
The cars drew away, a breeze from the open window lifting Nicola's hair.
On one occasion, she asked his opinion and he was glad to give it.
‘It's not possible, is it, to start again?’
‘Just here,’ she said, ‘tell him to stop just here.’
Nicola had taken them off the path and into a dense part of the wood.
On the fourth occasion, she paused leaving Schmidt to walk on alone.
She was close to the tree's bole, crouching down to examine something.
Schmidt was answering a question she had put to him.
‘It's simple: we can't win this time.
To do anything at all would be to risk exposure.
He said, ‘There will be other —’
Schmidt went after her, falling twice before getting down.
As he started across the grass, Nicola was emerging from the treeline.
‘We can find a way from down here?’ he asked.
We turn in the opposite direction to meet the path.
Schmidt laboured behind her; she could hear his grunts of effort.
When he was in reach, Schmidt grasped her hand.
Her toecap took him under the chin, close to the throat.
She didn't wait to judge the  effect of that.
Before he had disappeared, she was yards away, going at a dead run.
It rained that evening, a steady fall that kept people off the streets.
Two men walked through the downpour, their heads pulled into their coat collars.
One of them wore a hat that dripped water from the brim.
A woman opened the door, peering into the rain, and they muscled through.
All three stood in the hallway, the woman backed up to the wall, a finger and thumb goring her cheeks.
The blood slipped from her face and she began to faint.
They took her into the living room and put her down on a sofa.
Make sure they're asleep.
Terrified, of course she was terrified; Michael Pope had expected that.
Seconds after he'd broken the connection, the phone rang again.
‘Not her, not the children; don't worry.’
‘Let's get on with it.’
Pope climbed a flight of stairs to the main part of the house.
‘We'll do it like this,’ they'd told him.
‘Two men will go to your home.
Your wife will be frightened, but nothing will happen to her, of course.
You say the house will be empty…’
The response time can be as short as ninety seconds.’
The men who'll come in know what they're looking for.
You've been threatened, you've been doped, you're groggy.
Open an account somewhere in a false name and let us have the account number.
We'll make payments each month; that'll seem authentic enough.
Listen, the only crucial thing is — don't tell anyone.
You kill the alarm, then go to sleep for ten minutes.
It's money for nothing and danger-free as long as you keep shut.’
Christ, I don't want to know about it myself.
‘We'll need a sketch layout of the house; floor plan.’
She'll phone the police, but by that time, who cares?’
Still holding the phone, Pope opened the casing of the console.
He punched in a five digit code, then said,
There was a pause on the line of no more than thirty seconds.
Pope had already removed his jacket and begun to roll back his sleeve.
‘It looks better — you know?’
Each was carrying a taped package, foam-wrapped.
He slid down the wall and sat with a bump.
He was aware of shadows amid the gloom, then the darkness poured over him.
The man with the lisp said, ‘It'll put you out for ten minutes.
The children hadn't woken, so they'd let the children live.
Hugo Kemp took a mouthful of poached salmon and chewed slowly to get the flavour.
Each in his manner, of course, and greatness is originality enough.
It has to do with a lack of influence.
Look at the Impressionists — all painting with the same palette.
He glanced sideways and his plate was removed from the table.
He felt the work of others, of course; no-one creates in a vacuum.
From them he took a notion of proportion and of colour-mass.
The tines of her fork tapped the china, drawing a clear note.
‘He was single-minded, but broad-minded too — open to other disciplines.
They would read poetry together, people like Hugo and Lamartine.
‘A vision born of solitude’— that's what one critic said of his work.’
She imagined it as a tiny surge welling over a dam and splashing into a parched valley.
‘It's said he was a boorish man — moody, quarrelsome.
Called Zola ‘vile’ when they fell out, and never spoke to him again.
He said, ‘Isolation is all I'm good for.’
He had a Catholic faith — strong to the point of bigotry.
‘I don't want anyone to get their hooks in me,’ that's what he said.
He moved around a lot, but his heart lay in Aix-en-Provence.
Nina broke a piece of fish into damp flakes.
The Indian emerged from his soft, stoned world for a moment and took her plate away.
He had to ease the fork from her fingers.
The expression on his face and the expression on Nina's were much the same.
Kemp's remarks drifted in and out of her mind, leaving strange images and textures.
She saw the greens and ochres, lushness in a desert landscape.
Kemp reached for the cheese; in the same moment, the Indian stepped forward with a claret decanter.
During the time he'd been talking, Kemp had scarcely once taken his eyes from Nina's face.
‘Perhaps I'll go to bed.’
She walked the length of the table and kissed her father.
He watched her approach and watched her as she went towards the door.
The intersection is on your route home, and you do it every day, and nothing ever happens.
Whenever you take a trip to the sea, you like to swim.
Of course it's dangerous; there could be rocks or a killer current.
It's always the same — each time you dive, you find clear, calm water.
Like everyone else, he was wearing weekend clothes: jeans and a light blouson.
He was carrying a small rucksack by one of its straps.
Three young men in cutoffs had colonized a triangular space and were flipping a Frisbee.
Maybe they all felt OK because no-one had been shot in a park.
Maybe, like Ross, they felt invulnerable, that it couldn't, wouldn't, happen to them.
Maybe it was nothing more than the statistical impossibility of everyone staying home all of the time.
As he passed them, Ross stifled an impulse to laugh.
It seemed so odd to think that they didn't know.
It shied; then, as the rider gathered rein, reared and skittered backwards on its hind legs.
The shot had been clearly audible and the activity by the water was energized by panic.
For a moment, they merely stared at one another; then Ross began to walk away.
It was just a matter of time, Ross could see that.
He turned and walked towards his pursuer, smiling, his eyebrows raised.
He was young and fit, and had been half-expecting an attack.
Ross ducked under a second punch and the man grabbed him.
The man kicked out sharply and connected just under the knee.
A weakening pain raced from the joint to Ross's hip and he staggered slightly.
The man stepped back in order to measure a punch.
He slammed the straight edge into his opponent's face, taking him between top lip and nostrils.
They could close the gates and have him bottled up.
He walked quickly, getting three streets clear, then hailed a cab.
Others had seen him as he jumped down from the railings.
The cab driver had dropped him a couple of streets from the rented apartment.
Some had him with a moustache, others clean-shaven.
Some put him at average  height, others said he was a tall man.
But there was enough that married to provide a series of relatively accurate characteristics.
He felt even more exposed, as if the wound were shouting his identity.
He took a handkerchief from his pocket to hold against his cheek.
The spent cartridge came out with the handkerchief and dropped on to the roadside verge.
‘I'd proceed on that basis if I were you.’
Culley ordered a house-to-house in the area.
Some of them were approached by the Press and television news reporters.
Had they been given the time, they'd've talked their faces off.
He's got to hole up.
He'll hole up and move again tomorrow, after dark.
A man on a journey, who suddenly loses himself.
A man with a mission who suddenly loses his faith.
Where do you go when there's nowhere to go?
On 17 October, over fifty billion pounds was wiped off share prices worldwide.
Not everyone was ruined, though many were badly burned.
For the multi-millionaire, though, it doesn't work like that.
Bernard Warner had lost that sort of a sum from that sort of a fortune.
All of them had lost faith in the money market.
They would re-invest when things picked up, of course.
Six weeks after the crash, Warner had called a meeting of a dozen of his friends.
Money had proved itself flimsy in the face of those imponderables.
Each of the men at the meeting was powerful in his own way.
And, in part, their power came from an understanding that they were not as other men.
It was plain to them that they were an elite.
He had been a Member of Parliament for more than two decades.
It simply wasn't the same thing as an investment proposal from a friend.
If a few petty rules were bent, then so be it.
A fund was established, the money salted away in carefully disguised accounts abroad.
As long as the money grew, everyone was satisfied.
He didn't often actually handle a painting, but that mattered little to him.
Art was neither here nor there; money was the issue.
One such person was the man who called himself Francis.
Their relationship had put Warner in the uncomfortable position of being a customer.
‘Jackson knows where to find him?’
‘Jackson has the advantage; the police don't know who he is.’
‘Let me know as soon as there's any news.’
Warner broke the connection and re-dialled.
Warner heard Latimer say, ‘That's all for now.
‘If I make them,’ Warner told him, ‘you'll take them.
After a moment, he said, ‘They found the cartridge case —’
‘They've started a house-to-house.’
The obvious move would be get out of the district.’
‘Yes = Bernard, I'll have to go.
‘Is Robin Culley still heading up the task force?’
‘You're still getting his reports?’
‘He's dangerous — thinking as he does.’
‘I can't be seen to hinder things without cause.
Latimer's voice had grown louder; he dropped it again.
‘Bernard…this has got to stop.
I can't give you any more.’
He allowed a silence, not for Latimer's response, but to underline the lack of it.
‘Keep me informed about what Culley does.
She went to the fridge and fetched some cheese and a chicken leg.
When the kettle boiled, she made two cups of instant coffee.
Then, riskily, ‘It's wonderful to have you back.’
He went to the glass door that led to the garden and looked out.
It was dark, but he knew there was nothing to recognize.
She'd heard him at the glass door — a double knock, very light.
‘You'll be OK here with us,’ she said.
Angie was there, wearing a robe, hair tousled, her lips moving soundlessly.
‘We can talk about it in the morning.
A place you try to find after a long absence…
Roads look familiar, landmarks seem to point the way.
But it isn't right — it doesn't recognize you.
A puffy bruise divided by a clean slit rimmed with blood.
When she spoke, her breath fell on him and his eyelids fluttered.
There was nothing here that belonged to him.
Carpet, bannister-rail, laundry basket on the landing.
Dressing table, mirror, books and a clock-radio on the bedside cupboard.
He undressed and got into bed, switching off the lamp.
His head was still up; his eyes were still fixed on the wall.
There was nothing of recognition in his face as he passed her by.
She woke and found herself alone in the bed; a door closed and she identified the sound.
She felt foolish as soon as the words were out.
She said, ‘Martin Jackson was here.’
We don't have to talk, no, but we need a moment for ourselves.
I could, but look — I don't think that's the point.
She won't want to, but she'll have to.
It depends when you find the pebble gone, and the map.
If it's daylight, the best I can do is follow you, stay close.
A quiet neighbourhood; no-one about but the occasional delivery man.
If it's dark, you'll probably go the way you came — over the gardens.
Because I've been watching the front of your house long enough to know.
Now, which way will you go — left or right?
I was looking for something fast and reliable, but not ostentatious.
You know how important it is not to look exceptional.
In the road to the left, two candidates; in the road to the right, two more.
So why not bluff and come in from the left?
Now we've worried at this, what have we got?
Your car is parked in the road off to the right.
The thing is, we both know that; after all, we worked this out together.
So you'll think: Martin knows where my car is.
And he knows I know he knows.
If I go to the car, he'll be waiting.
Pretty badly, I guess we're agreed on that.
Jackson went to the road that bordered the gardens on the left.
She'd been there two days and was running out of money.
Protheroe and Latimer weren't the only people who had trouble tracking Culley down.
In any case, she couldn't have held a conversation there.
‘She doesn't say who she is; she doesn't leave a number.
She's phoned several times over the past couple of days.’
She asks when she's likely to find you in.’
The obvious route is often the last to be taken.
She said, ‘I've been trying to reach Robin Culley.’
‘Stand in line,’ Helen told her.
Then her voice took on a tone of mild suspiciousness.
Well, I'm not sure I can be much help.’
Helen had been with Culley long enough to recognize a red light.
‘No,’ she said, ‘but I could come to you if you like.’
He was a fine art dealer; paintings mostly, occasionally china.
‘Cut them out of the frames himself; no, I'm sure you're right.
But I do know that he was threatened.’
‘Oh, millions — he didn't expect them to accept.’
Helen was hearing her own theory given circumstance and flesh.
She asked, ‘What are you saying?’
You said a moment ago that there'd be someone to organize transport.
He didn't tell me about the death-threat.
‘Schmidt — and one or two of his people — think they know about the sniper.
He got a call on the day of Jay's death.
Just: ‘You've seen what happened to Hammond.
‘What did Schmidt do?’
‘Why didn't you tell the police when they called?’
‘I didn't know Jay had gone.
‘I knew he was dead, but I hadn't lost him.
I couldn't quite work out what ‘dead’ meant.
He'd said, ‘I'll be home about four-thirty.’
Helen said, ‘It wasn't time for him to be home yet.’
Nicola's look sharpened and her head came round slightly.
The vagueness had gone from her eyes, though she seemed a little startled.
I tried to make a bonfire with them on the lawn.
They wouldn't…it was a bit like house arrest, really.
Helen said, ‘I think we'd better go.’
It had been an hour before Elliott had grown concerned.
It was a further hour before he found Schmidt.
Get her back , Schmidt had written.
Need to know what she's said —who she's said it to .
Elliott said, ‘She'll talk to the police if she talks at all— who else?’
She'll want it to be her terms ,place she decides .
Schmidt had shaken his hand, as if scrubbing the idea out.
They'd staked out Culley's flat for half a day and most of the night.
The tape on his answering machine had said,’…leave a message or try me on…’
His voice sounded like chains being dragged through gravel.
The phone calls had dog-legged back.
He'd been sparing with words: it hurt to talk.
Helen said, ‘I don't know what will happen.’
‘I'll talk to your husband about me…’
She seemed oddly lighthearted, a woman suddenly overtaken by good humour.
Helen wondered if she was seeing the first moment of a gathering hysteria.
She took her eyes off the road briefly and glanced at Nicola.
Then she said, ‘But, in fact, it doesn't matter.’
Helen pulled in to a ground-level parking lot.
From there, a quiet backstreet led to the rear entrance of her apartment block.
She and Nicola walked past the delivery doors of a bakery and a Chinese restaurant.
A kitchen worker appeared, dumped two black garbage sacks, then disappeared.
When she saw Goldman, her voice rose above Helen's.
Elliott pushed the passenger door open with a foot as Goldman wrestled Nicola to the kerbside.
Her face struck concrete, dazing her, and a fierce humming started up in her ears.
When she put her hand out, trying to rise, she skittled a row of bottles.
He kicked at her legs, tried to lift her, kicked at her legs again.
The buttons popped and the shirt tore out of her waistband.
She crossed to the kerb, looking for an opening, a bottle in her right hand.
Helen swung the bottle, clubbing Goldman at the base of the skull.
The man was standing just behind them, still watching.
They looked at Goldman, then at Elliott getting out of the car.
The man said, ‘What's going on?’
Helen took Nicola's arm and began to draw her backwards.
‘Do you want me to do anything?’
She said, ‘It's all right,’ still retreating, still pulling Nicola with her.
The man took a step towards Elliott, then stopped.
He said, ‘What are you doing?’
Helen looked at the man's face until she drew his gaze.
The man took a couple of steps backwards, then a couple more.
Three more paces backwards, then the man turned and walked off.
When they were inside, Nicola said, ‘I feel sick.’
She tried a smile, then her mouth turned down and she hiccuped; her cheeks belled.
Helen took her to the bathroom and held her hair back while she gagged and spat.
‘It won't come,’ she said, and sat back on her haunches.
Helen left her trying while she made a phone call.
A room had been set aside for the investigation.
The law of averages had made one of them Robin Culley.
Someone held a phone up as he walked past.
He took the call and listened for a while.
She turned to Culley's arrival making no move to cover herself.
Nicola took it and turned her back while she put it on.
Her voice was a little too loud — an attempt to cover her shakiness.
There ought to be leeway in that.’
Helen felt as if she were hearing Nicola for the first time.
She went through to the kitchen to fetch the coffee she'd put on earlier.
‘I get to be anonymous.’
She wasn't trying to look coquettish, but she seemed a little silly all the same.
‘And the men who came here…?’
‘Well…he knows who ordered it.’
‘I still won't be involved.’
Helen poured coffee but left them to take it from the tray.
Culley held his cup like a truck driver, hand wrapped round, handle outermost.
‘If it's to be unlawful restraint, I need you.
She's lost all she intends to lose.
Culley thought that too, but he made a last try.
To Helen, she said, ‘I don't suppose you smoke?’
She said, ‘I'm offering you something you didn't have this morning.
You can pull his teeth, smash his kneecaps, hammer nails into him if you like.
But nothing that makes him public; because that makes me public.’
‘You're expecting me to go without back-up.’
‘I can play mad,’ she told him.
Everything I've said will become fantasy, a need for revenge, hysteria.
You'll hear the words wrongful arrest from more lawyers than you can easily count.
And anyway,’ she drew on her cigarette and smiled through the smoke, ‘you never intended that.
You said you needed me; you don't.
A little quake of delayed shock nudged her — breathlessness and a desire to sleep.
You can smell it on him, thought Helen.
When Helen came back she closed the shirt and buttoned it.
Helen fetched her bag and gave Nicola all the money she was carrying.
The house was in a terrace backed by garages.
Each house had its own wrought-iron gate hung in a brick arch.
Sandy-haired, broad across the shoulders; Elliott, from Nicola's description.
Goldman emerged from the wrought-iron gateway with a briefcase in either hand.
He tossed them on to the back seat and went to the passenger side of the car.
with a narrow fan of glass in the transom; two elegant sashcord windows flanking it.
I hope I've got this right, Culley thought.
Culley said, ‘Don't bother,’ but Schmidt had stopped anyway.
Schmidt began to turn his head and received a light slap.
He remembered a face on the television screen; a voice saying, ‘…at this stage.
We're following a number of enquiries and hope…’
He'd been too frightened to make the connection immediately.
He felt a hand resting lightly on his shoulder as if in readiness.
as if reading his mind, Culley asked, ‘Where have they gone?’
Culley yanked the man's head back by his hair and cuffed him lightly across the throat.
His mouth opened and pulled air in like draughts of water.
Culley waited for the spasm to pass, and loosened his hold a fraction.
I know about the deal on the paintings.
I know that Hammond told them to fuck off.
I know that you know who Hammond was talking to.
Schmidt's chest was crowning with effort, like an asthmatic in a sawmill.
A crimson flush going purple spread on to Schmidt's forehead.
His body bucked off the chair with such violence that his knee joints popped.
He gulped the syllable, taking it down with a swallow of air.
He felt the wide gaze of the french windows at his back and the awareness put his timing out.
Elliott backpedalled fast, then circled to Culley's left.
Elliott saw the move at the last second.
He went back on his heels, but couldn't clear the punch entirely.
Elliott hit him on the rise, misjudging the blow slightly.
Culley heard a small detonation in his face, like a damp stick breaking.
Blood hosed over Elliott's chin and he backed off, looking for a moment's pause.
Over Elliott's shoulder, Culley could see Goldman wrenching at the handle on the french windows.
Schmidt started towards them, intending to throw the lock.
Culley went straight for Elliott, then sidestepped at the last minute, almost a leap backwards.
Elliott had stepped away, trying for the counter-punch.
Schmidt suddenly found himself in the space between them, his hand outstretched for the lock.
Culley swung at him, coming up on his toes for the blow.
His fist went into Schmidt's throat like a hammer into dough.
To get to Culley, he would have had to step over Schmidt.
He was watching through the door-space as he backed down the hallway.
The men were in the same position, but now they were looking at each other.
Helen amused herself with the pretence that she always lived this way.
He poured himself a gin, sipped it, then added ice and tonic water as an afterthought.
His left eye had half-closed over a tight, blue bruise.
Elliott's other score had put a graze on Culley's forehead, close to the hairline.
She laughed out loud, but there was a downturn to her mouth.
‘Yes,’ she said, ‘that looks familiar.’
I must have killed him, Culley thought.
Helen went into the bathroom and came back with antiseptic and cotton wool.
Nurse Blake soothes another patient; to care is to serve.’
Her own legs were dappled with the pale primrose of iodine.
Culley lifted his face and sipped gin under her hand.
‘Where did she go?’
Her only concern was to get clear.
Not a bad idea, judging from the state of your face.
‘I think my cheek-bone's cracked.’
Her hand withdrew, then came back, gentler than before.
‘Do you have to do anything?’
After a few minutes, she thought to soft-nose him in.
It was old news, but they hadn't seen each other to talk of it.
She capped the antiseptic, then walked through to the kitchen and dropped the cotton wool into the bin.
‘Well, you're about as easy to locate as a politician's honour.
‘My God, that's not retrospective concern I'm hearing, is it?
I've got worse picking blackberries.’
Helen shrugged; she felt mildly embarrassed, as if she had overstepped the mark.
‘If I hadn't seen her, it might have been days before…
They might have tracked her down.’
He glanced at her briefly, then reached for the bottle and topped up both their drinks.
‘I didn't say I was sorry that you'd done it.’
Dusk swarmed in the room, a galaxy of dark particles.
The window framed a deep blue square of sky.
Absentmindedly, she opened to him and his touch brought her head round.
The room darkened, and Culley's outline melded into blackness beside her.
Her breathing became a tiny sound, a mew, and her hips rose from the bed.
Evening, music, a drink, and someone coming home on the six-eighteen.
Her eyes were open in the darkness, but she could only see herself.
Culley looked round at the bare walls and smiled.
Once disbanded, then opened up again with two officers, it now consisted of eight men and all of them overworked.
Paul Binyon followed Culley's gaze round the bleak room.
Hessian walls and a sprinkling of post-fucking-Impressionists?’
‘Don't tell me your man's been taking pot shots at a Rembrandt.’
Odd, probably nothing to it, but worth a look.’
He said, ‘What do you want to know?’
‘When paintings get stolen, where do they go?’
‘Well, I expect there are least two answers to that.
One's in the realm of psychology, the other's a more  practical issue.’
Binyon sounded like a man settling into his subject.
He leaned back in his chair and laced his fingers over his paunch.
‘They're got a fuck of a lot of money.
No-one else can afford to buy stolen gear, really.
It's the organization that takes cash.’
They like to own things, don't they — Americans?
I mean, they own the fucking world, more or less.’
Something stolen in Europe will arrive at its destination within a couple of days.
The idea is to get it under lock and key, fast.
A painting by Brueghel the elder was lifted from the Courtauld a few years back.
I have enough trouble with the Serious Crimes squad pissing in my pot.’
Binyon swallowed his drink, his eyes on Culley, and poured himself another.
‘Not eight million; not a piece of piss either.
‘How did they go?’
He was on-site, she was at home.
Heat-sensing passive infra-red detectors with a fifty-feet range.
The sensors cover everything, wall to ceiling; they're amazingly sensitive.
If you've got more than one guard, each will have his own code.
If someone punches in the wrong code more than three times, the alarm sounds automatically.
How does all this relate to your sniper?’
‘When I find out,’ Culley assured him, ‘you'll be the first to know.
Binyon topped up and pushed the cup over to Culley, then took a swig from the neck of the flask.
He said, ‘Here's mud in your eye,’ and laughed.
‘I fell going upstairs,’ Culley said.
Our problem is we can't get at the buyers.
We're here, they're there; that's one drawback.
We suspect — strongly; we don't know.’
‘Who would you go to?’
‘Yes,’ he said, ‘Kemp would be a reasonable bet.’
Helen stared at him, as if he'd read her mind.
More than enough for two, so the limitations of your fridge needn't worry us for once.
Culley took the bottle from her and went to find a corkscrew.
In the dark she had hammered at him as if she were driving a spike.
Love into symbols of loss; passion into lust and regret; sad alchemy.
His civilized behaviour was something he'd learned to do.
Sometimes he'd come back, bringing a stink of the badlands.
You can buy them as a hedge against inflation, or as a straightforward investment.
If you're the truckers’ union or whoever, they can underpin your pension fund.
You can buy them to sell on later at a profit.
They can beef up your status if you're a society hostess.
‘Have I upset you in some way?’
I'm amazed that you didn't bring me a bunch of fucking flowers.’
‘Why do you want to know?’
‘I'm looking for someone who collects.
You work in a gallery; I thought you might have an opinion.
She thought for a moment, then said, ‘Well, well…’
Culley paused, knife in one hand, lettuce in the other.
‘Nothing, except they made a bit of a stir; their disappearance did.
Unpleasant bastard, but a good customer for some.
I mean, 90 per cent of stolen pictures end up there.’
Culley nodded as if to confirm the fact, and Helen gave a small start.
Most villains take money, or whatever converts to money.
And when he gets the painting, that's the end.
He can't display it, not really; he can't boast about it.
‘Do you know who he is?’
That doesn't tell me who he is.’
She poured the last of the wine, distributing it evenly between their glasses.
The question was out before she could bite it back.
That's about as long as anyone gets.
You're assuming they'll let me go.’
Someone else can chase her, if Protheroe wants that.’
Helen lifted the knuckle of lamb bone from her plate and grazed on it.
‘A view of Aix-en-Provence — mountains and cypresses.
She nibbled a few more flakes of meat and dropped the bone back on to her plate.
‘I suppose it's got something to do with possession.
He drew finger patterns on her thighs, and she opened her legs because she wanted to.
‘You take a painting out of its vault and look at it.
His hands were growing idle, his mind elsewhere.
You think I've lived like a nun since we split up?
She ducked her head and nipped the skin on his chest.
She bit softly just below his hip and watched him stir.
Don't take me to bed then make me wait.
Protheroe lifted his moustache with a forefinger, as if getting air to his mouth.
He said, ‘I've spoken to Ted Latimer.’
He liked the familiarity; it made him feel one of the clan.
The word didn't fool either of them, but Culley thought it was a reasonable indulgence.
‘I gather you've spoken to him as well.’
It felt like bad acting and he made a mental note.
‘It was a phone call, as I said in my —’
‘The name she gave you —’
Art and Antiques are looking at her husband's business.
Protheroe looked at the report again, selecting a name.
‘We've talked to the Police Department in Tucson,’ he said.
It's clear they're not impressed.
It's all rumour, so far as they're concerned.
Protheroe lifted a memo from his desk, glanced, then tossed it back.
‘It was Beck you spoke to when you called?’
‘Talk to Beck before you make any plans.
‘If I go, how long can I have?’
Culley tried to make a tune of it.
There was a lilt that reminded him of Ella Fitzgerald.
…had we thought a bit of the end of it …
Beck sounded as if his mind was on other business.
Checking the week's break-ins; adding up the traffic violations.
He's got the —’ He broke off.
‘His…this guy who works for Kemp.
We'd have to say we can't help.
‘I'm told he's a bit of a recluse.’
You can't hassle a guy like that without…
It's a good time of year for Arizona.’
…one of those bells that now and then ring …
Latimer had gone to his study to take the call.
Warner said, ‘You don't have to like me, Latimer.
Just stay in line; that'll be enough.’
I've seen them reported in the papers and on TV.
They seem to be full of references to lofty things.
But what I know about you isn't really very uplifting, is it?
Warner paused, but not long enough to invite a response.
He said, ‘Culley wants to go to Arizona.’
‘I don't think he'll get much of a welcome.’
They gave me a contact name for him — just a brush-off.
They really don't want to know.’
What you find out through Culley is your problem.’
He reports to a man called Protheroe, not directly to me.
He'll try to persuade me that he should.
We read the reports and make judgements based on that.’
Francis gave himself a drink and raised the bottle questioningly.
There was a light frost of anger in Jackson's tone.
‘Do you know where he is now?’
Everything a little too-well placed, a little too obvious.
Jackson spoke softly, still looking out of the window, his head turned from the other man.
Francis didn't know how to read it, and the lack of insight worried him.
‘I think we'll find each other,’ Jackson said.
‘He's going to America for a short while.
Jackson smiled; he still had his back to the room.
Mike Dawson was sitting at a dead computer, strumming the keyboard and offering a toothy smile to an invisible audience.
He only knew one word in three of the lyric he'd chosen.
‘The Count Basie of the personal computer,’ he suggested.
‘Is it something I've done?’
‘Difficult to say, since you haven't been confiding your deeds to me.’
They seem to think it's a waste of time.’
Kemp's a bit of a long shot, isn't he?’
‘He came to me from a very reliable source.’
I'll fax Protheroe, if I have to.
What did you think-I'd hang up?’
‘I thought you might be a little pissed off with me, yes.’
Dawson sat down in front of the computer and strummed the keys, a rapid clatter.
‘Because it's not much to go on, is it?
‘I think this guy's a bit of a hermit.’
‘Can I get you another drink?’
Stan had downed his drink and was leaving.
Kelso watched him go, then raised his glass.
‘One or two of the messages got to the wrong people.
Otherwise, he relies on booze you could strip paint with.’
‘Did you find whoever did it?’
We used a wages robbery for a couple of them some time later.
I don't think it was theirs, but it served its purpose.’
Kelso was turning his glass and tilting it, to shift the ice.
The obsession can be a projection — the paintings or whatever stand for something else.’
He waggled his glass to indicate a quote.
‘Obsessional neuroses relate to a repressed sexual act performed with pleasure during childhood.’
I'm making this up as I go along, really.
It could be that he's a very poor loser.’
‘Doesn't sound to me as if you made it up,’ Culley said.
Kelso finished his drink and extended his hand for Culley's glass.
Helen said, ‘Let's go out to eat.
They sat looking at menus; Helen said, ‘What do you want?’
‘Minestrone,’ he said, ‘calf's liver, saute potatoes, broccoli.’
Well, yours is a little bigger, but not much.
You're saying, Let's go back, let's —’
Helen said, ‘It takes a lot of faith.’
‘Well, you have to want it, yes.’
‘There's a time limit on this, you know.’
‘Minestrone,’ Helen said, ‘calf's liver, sauté potatoes, broccoli.’
As the craft came closer, Helen could see that they were dancing.
He said, ‘Are you coming to bed?’
Someone who could draw your attention without being seen.
He turned and saw no-one.
Then he'd realized that it was no-one he would recognize.
But that desire to turn, that need to look…
He'd found an article on shoreline fishing and was engrossed in it.
His walk was nicely balanced, arms swinging loosely.
He turned, just before going airside.
There were faces at the barrier, people craning for a last look.
They passed through the barrier, waving, jostling Culley as they went.
The smile was still on his face as if it had never left.
No smile, no handshake of greeting, no policeman called Beck.
You don't announce yourself when you know you're not wanted.
Culley went to his hotel and checked in.
He'd neither eaten nor slept on the plane — his method for defeating jet-lag.
The hotel was a hollow square with a courtyard at the centre.
A fountain lipped water over five circular tiers into a marble bowl.
Birds ducked from the rim, sluicing their backs, then riffled their feathers like a pack of cards.
When he woke, the room was blue and white — moonlight and a glow from the courtyard.
He opened his window and listened to the hiss and trickle of the fountain.
He stripped his clothes off, peeled back the sheet, and climbed into bed.
There was music, soft, a slow rhythm, coming from some other room.
He met Carl Mathers in a diner on Congress Street.
A skinny man who looked as if he didn't sleep nights.
I said you can't get it.
If you want to pay my rates, I'll try for you.
Just don't complain when it doesn't work out.’
Mathers twitched a cigarette out of a pack in his shirt pocket.
Mathers lit the cigarette and immediately plucked it from his mouth, a busy gesture.
‘He's got a small ranch, not far, forty miles maybe, but desert.
A rumble started, deep in his lung, like an old engine turning over.
‘They didn't seem able to help.’
‘Just that they couldn't help.’
Mathers was halfway through the Danish and his needs had switched.
‘I can't believe Hugo Kemp put his head that far above the trench.’
I mean, they might have been stolen for him.’
Culley waited, not sure whether Mathers was being wry or was genuinely intrigued.
‘Well, he's rich as hell; I'd heard he was an art lover.
Someone was killed to leave things open for Kemp.
‘You're asking me to work round the police department here.’
’ Mathers killed his cigarette and started the second half of the Danish.
‘Well, I get some expenses; I'll be making up the difference.’
‘Whatever you want, you want it pretty badly.’
Yeah, I guess you can afford me for that long.
A guy called Gerry Cattini — used to work for Kemp.’
‘I mean, did he work for Kemp, or with Kemp.’
Used to walk the line with a rifle.
Gerry worked for me, just for a while — days I could afford help.
Told Tyler Beck he'd been hit by a truck.
‘I'd like to get a listening device into Kemp's home.’
The rumbling in Mathers's chest was gravelly and deep.
He folded the handkerchief carefully, keeping it in his hand ready for another attack.
‘You said you were here for just a week?’
Three makeshift stalls had been set up at the entrance to a shopping mall.
Necklaces, pendants, bracelets, rings; silver and turquoise glittered in the white light.
Mathers stepped round a semi-circle of tourists.
You tell me what Gerry Cattini said; OK?’
Essential meaning I introduce Gerry to a few friendly drinks.
Gerry Cattini arrived as soon as they'd sat down.
The good eye was green as a cat's.
‘I'd be grateful for what you can give me.’
Cattini ducked his head, smiling at Culley's accent.
He came back with a clutch of drinks.
He lined three glasses up at Cattini's elbow, keeping one back for himself.
Cattini got up and walked over to the barman who was wiping glasses.
Cattini looked over his shoulder and lifted a hand as Mathers went to the door.
‘Carl's a good man,’ he said, ‘you couldn't do better.’
‘All I can get.’
The green eye flashed at Culley then settled on the next drink.
Was that showy, Culley wondered, or is he brighter than I think?
There's not much to tell, but there's a lot to listen to.
Everyone knows that Kemp likes to keep his privacy intact.
He isn't seen much, and nobody thinks about him much.
It's known that guys with guns patrol his land, but so what?
Cattini looked at the one full glass left on the table.
He said, ‘You're gonna have to buy me a drink.’
as if the question reminded him it was there, Cattini eased the eye-patch.
The cord rolled a little and found a new position.
A red weal lay across the lines of his forehead like a strawberry mark.
‘Paintings aren't the only thing he keeps out there.
‘Yeah, she takes, I mean not smack or anything.
The barman arrived with Culley's sandwich and three drinks on a tray.
‘You know the stories about the princess in the tower?
He climbs up, rescues her, they ride off together.
That's it; except Nina stopped looking for any knight a long time ago.’
‘If you come up with an answer, let me know.’
We used to talk — nothing important, you know, just this and that.
Sometimes I'd fetch a shopping list into one of the city bookstores.
‘She started to get, like, fixed on me.
I guess I'd've fucked her, given the chance.
We were just talking, you know, how she'd got a thing for me.
‘That night, they took me out into the desert and beat me.
I don't know if I was supposed to live or not.
I don't think they cared one way or the other.
I caught a boot heel in the eye; apart from other places.’
There was a drink left; he turned to the barman.
‘You told Tyler Beck you'd been hit by a truck.’
He stopped by the hospital on his way to a tennis match.’
He set down three drinks and a new tab.
‘When he does, who's Nina's minder?’
The good eye, the green eye, scanned Culley's face.
‘See here,’ he said, and his fingertip brushed Culley's eyelash.
Then, ‘See here,’ as he flipped up the patch like a lid.
He'd paid the tab and organized another round for Cattini.
‘Ira Sanchez likes going to the fights,’ Cattini said.
He took a good third of the whisky; ice rattled against his mouth.
Shadows tightened to a hard outline as the light sharpened — seguaro, scrub trees.
Something moved in the brush and the snake dropped its length between two rocks.
The desert was alive, but you couldn't tell how or where.
‘Yeah, well, kind of extravagant ,’ Mathers said.
His cigarette burned his finger and he dropped it under a boot heel.
Who needs a tomb with a fucking door , for Chrissake?’
‘What do you need,’ Mathers asked, ‘and for how long?’
Mathers opened the driver's door and fished round in the glove compartment.
He came up with a pair of binoculars and handed them to Culley.
The sound comes back up the laser beam to a modulator.
‘I could send in a fake mailing shot.
Kind of thing that advertises a new electronics package.
Then you have to allow that Kemp probably doesn't open his own mail.
Someone else might keep the calculator, give it away, throw it away.
Mathers span the wheel with the heel of his hand and they bounced back on to the approach road.
‘There's no sure way unless we get into the house?’
‘Except it's not going to be me.
Culley was calling on a brief training in surveillance techniques.
‘Gerry Cattini mentioned a man called Ira Sanchez.’
Mathers lodged the cigarette in his mouth and closed one eye against the smoke.
He wound up at Kemp's place a couple of years ago.
‘You could point him out to me,’ Culley said.
Mathers had pointed from behind the windshield.
A stocky man, too much weight below the barrel chest, but power there, too.
His hair was tied back at the nape of his neck.
Someone collected five dollars from Culley and he walked into a roofless space.
Their glow bleached everything it touched and threw deep shadows beyond the circumference of the pit.
Two handlers stepped in and stood either side of a scratched line.
They held the stags by their waists and headed them, bird to bird.
A dun and a barred blue, both trimmed for the pit, combs and wattles scissored off.
Their necks stretched as they tried for a beak hold.
The handlers thrust them at each other, withdrew them, thrust again.
He called a handle and the owners clambered over the planks.
‘Dangerous to bet a flyer,’ he said.
‘Gets too much height, he can be gaffed coming down.
Odds have narrowed some, but people don't like a flyer.’
The racket grew; ringsiders calling their favourite, arguing, laughing, laying bets.
Culley was having trouble hearing Sanchez.
The dun stag stayed back, sidestepping like a boxer.
The blue stood off for a moment, and the judge called another handle.
I could double up on the first hit and get better odds.’
He went in fast, jabbing one-legged and made a hit.
Sanchez collected the winnings, pushed half the roll into his shirt and gave the other half back.
Then he glanced at the fat woman carrying the naked-heeler.
Outside, the sky was dusky-black and the air as warm as wool.
A shooting star fell towards the city's crown of lights.
‘I'm taking a risk here, too,’ Culley said.
‘You work for a man called Hugo Kemp.’
He put the joint in his mouth and brought both hands up to his face, palming a zippo.
The thick flame wavered in the breeze, rimming his lips, his nostrils, and his eye sockets with shadow.
‘I'd like it if you'd work for me.
Sanchez laughed on an indrawn breath, and held the laugh down for a count of three.
The words arrived on a long feather of smoke.
Sometimes he collects the paintings I want.’
A little espionage would go a long way — that sort of thing.
He'd made the assumption that Sanchez wouldn't know one way or the other.
Except that Glinwood wouldn't do what you're asking me to do.
Sanchez cupped the coal of the joint and took a long toke.
Smoke purled out of his nostrils, taken this way and that by the breeze.
I don't get to hear about that stuff.’
‘We go horseback riding in the desert sometimes.
Well’— Sanchez gave a brief laugh —‘he talks to himself.
But I don't know about the deals, you know?
He said, ‘That's not what I'm asking for.’
‘I want to get a bug in there.
‘If it's what you're here for.’
From the rectangle of hard, white light fifty feet away came a hubbub of shouts and catcalls.
‘Check on the types of phone in the main room and in Kemp's bedroom.
You go in with two identical phones; you take the existing ones out.’
‘Now let's hear what you do.’
‘I give you a third of the buy-price of the Degas.’
‘I could be making a week's pay in there.’
‘I'm not the buyer,’ Culley told him, ‘I work for the buyer.
He doesn't know I'm doing this.
I don't think he'd mind much, but I'd sooner not try him out.
These bugs you're planting don't wear out.
I'll be able to tap into him any time.
I can't pay you until I've bought the piece and sold it on.
I'll be giving you my commission; it's worth that much.
I can't pay you until I've been paid.
Think about it — I'm relying on your silence.
Sanchez got up and they walked slowly back towards the pit.
When Kemp's away, you look after her, am I right?’
Sanchez took a step nearer to Culley as if they should lower their voices.
You're talking about getting too close.’
When Sanchez didn't respond, Culley added, ‘We're not talking about a pay-off, here.
Sanchez half-turned, then looked at Culley full-face.
When Culley did the same, he found himself holding a cold roach.
It was the seventh handle, and the fat woman's stag was still eager.
The heads of the two cocks banged at one another and their legs churned the air.
Ira Sanchez offered a bet and the bookie took it on the nod.
They'd lope out to a mesa two miles away and walk back.
‘Ratany plant,’ he'd say, dismounting to peer at the tiny, magenta petals.
One time, he patiently informed Ira about the Navaho code talkers.
Ira would nod, neck-reining his horse away to smile.
He slashed at his opponent's head, wearing him down.
The office air-conditioning chugged like a two-stroke engine.
A scarf of smoke rolled in a cold shaft of sunlight.
Carl Mathers sat at his desk, a telephone on his lap, a small screwdriver in one hand.
Gave me the model name, number, colours.
Be here to collect them in an hour.
What in hell did you offer him?’
Culley perched on the arm of a battered sofa and watched Mathers at work.
You know when you bleep-in to your messages from somewhere else?
If Kemp's making a phone call, you'll hear both sides of the conversation.
I hope that Indian believed whatever you told him.’
‘He's calling to collect them.’
‘What does that sound like to you?’
‘Poker player called Slim Preston — won the Crazy Horse Saloon game a few times.
Used to say, ‘Not all trappers wear fur hats’.’
‘Is there a way I can record what I hear?’
‘Do you always keep it this cold in here?’
Culley's throat was dry and itchy by the time Ira Sanchez arrived.
‘I'm not due back for a while,’ Sanchez said.
Make it eight o'clock.’
‘I need to know where to get you.’
‘Where I can find you.’
Culley gave his name and the name of his hotel.
We can meet at the fight; that's OK with me.’
As he left, Mathers wafted a hand —‘'Bye, Ira.’
He wanted to be outside, but most of all he wanted a hunter's advantage, another look.
Christ, you'll be inside the fucking place — good as.’
Mathers stood up and checked his pockets for car keys and cigarettes.
‘Why not?’ he said, ‘I'm charging you by the day.’
And the sun like a terrible machine, pile-driving heat into the rock.
Culley had climbed a small bluff and crouched down on his heels to clear the skyline.
Culley ducked his face into his shoulder and wiped sweat on to his shirt.
A girl was sunbathing on a lounger in the courtyard outside Culley's window.
Lithe, dark-haired, her waist deeply curved like a cello.
It was late in the day and she was taking the last of the sun.
Mathers arrived with a hand-sized tape cassette machine and a sucker cup for the telephone.
‘This jacked into the recorder,’ he said, ‘and this on the earpiece of the phone.’
He checked a card on Culley's bedside table.
While Culley examined the equipment, Mathers took his chair by the window.
The girl had about six feet of sunlight left.
She turned on to her front, dropped the bra alongside, and put her cheek on folded hands.
‘They gave you a room with a terrific view.’
’ His eyes were fixed on the hint of plumpness under the girl's armpit.
‘Maybe she waiting for someone to show her the town.’
‘He might be lousy in bed,’ Culley offered.
What time are you going to try Kemp?’
You've got the bug; you've got Sanchez.
I guess I could sign off.’
‘I'd still like to be able to call on you.’
It seemed that Mathers had closed the conversation down.
Then he said, ‘I quit the Department, trying to save the marriage.
First two cases I took were missing persons.
The wife doesn't know it, so she passes it on to her husband.
‘Jesus Christ, you never know what you're going to wake up with.
She accused her husband of fucking around and retained me to prove it.
Before I could dig much out, the guy arrived at my house.
Looking at it, I can't blame him for that.
Did more damage to my marriage than he did to my house.
She left a couple of days later, with the kid.’
He lit the sixth and spoke a fluctuating stream of smoke.
‘Dumb thing is, she lives with Tyler now.
The girl in the courtyard was on her back when she lost the sun entirely.
Her narrow waist  swayed and her hips lifted and dropped with each step.
‘I'm beginning to hate my life.’
Culley dialled and was patched-in to a conversation straight away.
He was talking to a man with a sharp, nasal accent.
There followed a pause and the riffle of pages being turned.
Another pause while a note was made.
Most of all, I want to see the sketch.’
There came a rattle as the phone was hung up.
Kemp's voice was no less clear than during the phone conversation.
‘I'll go to New York on Wednesday.
There are other things to be taken care of.’
A light voice that dropped rhythmically on the syllables.
‘It was you let the others know,’ Glinwood said.
‘He suspected — couldn't prove it, of course.’
‘So he doesn't like you too much.’
There was a pause, the sound of glass on glass.
Kemp said, ‘Don't put ice in that.’
He suggested a flight time and Kemp agreed it.
The sound of a glass being set down on a table, then a door closing.
Alone, Kemp gave a tiny groan followed by a breathy laugh.
The sounds said, I need Glinwood, and he bores me.
Footsteps on a wood floor; then silence as the feet stepped on to a rug.
Culley put the phone down, then dialled Mike Dawson's number.
‘Please,’ Culley said, ‘don't ask me if I know what time it is.
‘I'm sure you know exactly what time it Is, you bastard.
There was a pause; Dawson was angry or amused, perhaps both.
‘I've still got all my hair and most of my teeth.
‘That's what I was going to ask.’
Dawson came back to the phone two or three minutes later.
I had to go for a piss.
‘Well, who do you think they got the idea from?
Meanwhile, we're working fifteen-hour days and getting nowhere.
They've reduced the Task Force by more than half.’
‘The idea is that he's stopped for good.’
Dawson's reply came from a distance; he was holding the phone away from his mouth.
The girl's voice was fruity with sleep, muffled, the syllables blurred like lipstick on a kissed mouth.
He dialled Kemp and got silence, punctuated by the sounds of sleep.
The phone rang, but no-one picked it up.
HCRC Director,, invites us to consider the ‘human computer’.
For many people, ‘human’ and ‘computation’come from opposite ends of their thesaurus.
Humans are emotional beings who excel at misunderstanding computers.
Within this enlarged idea of computation, people are computers.
People are sensitive to acoustic patterns impinging on their ears when someone speaks.
40 years on there is also a multi-million pound ‘speech technology’ industry.
This industry sells engineered solutions to restricted parts of the general problem.
Human computation is as incompetent (measured by engineered computer standards) as it is miraculous.
One of the central problems of machine text understanding is decoding continuity markers in prose, most notoriously pronouns.
Put it in a bucket of sand and call the police’ is illustrative.
Continuity is just as important in dialogue as in monologue.
The data is coded at levels all the way from acoustic features to the intentions of the participants.
Hearers actually use this unclarity as a clue to the speaker's intentions.
HCRC is not just concerned with language but also with graphical communication, and particularly with combinations of language and graphics.
We are interested in a general theory which will explain why these diagrams help.
Many of its problems are direct descendants of the central problems of philosophy.
Which question is more important to our understanding of ourselves and our position in the universe?
Writer, journalist and Edinburgh graduate,, lives in Edinburgh's twin city, Kiev.
He reports on a city where fact and fiction merge:
Opposite the Ukrainian President's office in Bankova Street, Kiev, lies a curious building.
People will tell you two different stories about how this came about.
The discontinuity of history in Kiev is too acute.
It is painted a livid blood-red.
Kiev will be looking for a touchstone of reality for some time yet.
The Russian language, for so long dominant, is being displaced.
Official signs, street names and the names of metro stations are in Ukrainian.
Civil servants speak Ukrainian to visitors and talk in Russian among themselves.
From that time to this Kiev has evolved, like Naples or Boston, into both a great and a provincial city.
Provincial in its self-absorption, its amenities, its overshadowing by another capital, in this case Moscow.
The Lithuanians came, the Poles, the Imperial Russians, the Imperial Germans, the Bolsheviks, the Nazis.
Otherwise it was a Russian-Jewish centre, a city of the Russian Empire, where Russian history happened.
The Ukrainians were the peasants in the countryside and small towns around Kiev.
Now at long last the city is to become a Ukrainian one, and a genuine capital.
There is no rush to dismantle it.
Is there, for you, a true picture of Edinburgh on film?
There is a limited selection from which to choose.
Significantly, perhaps, none of these has had box office success.
Under different circumstances, might Taggart have worked if set in Edinburgh?
The second series of the Advocates was set partly in the University itself.
For not only is the culture of film-making important for its own sake.
These include microelectronics, veterinary science, law, fire safety engineering and information technology.
The world of athletics had changed so much in that time, and has changed since 1980.
The modern-day athlete is now a full time professional.
Even since Allan Wells won the Olympic 100m in 1980, things have changed.
Having the time off allowed the quality of both sessions to be even higher.
The Foundation's objectives are a greater awareness of mankind, and educational and sporting excellence in young people.
The first Development and Training Camp organised by the Foundation was held in Hong Kong last September.
Eric Liddell's dedication and ideals are thus commemorated in a living, positive way.
Eric Liddell was born in Tianjin, China in 1902.
While there, he was capped as a Scottish Rugby International.
Maybe I was too young because I fear I was not an assiduous student.
Too much time was spent on student journalism and other pursuits and too little on the books.
At university I had done Moral Philosophy, English, French and German.
It became clear to me that Dr Clark did not understand journalism, however.
The value of a practical education I was to see strikingly illustrated on The Guardian.
One day a story was received about a betting coup at Dagenham Greyhound Track.
The trouble was that none of us could understand it.
He then proceeded to explain the sequence of the coup with admirable lucidity.
At the university I also learned the valuable lesson, not to waste my time playing billiards.
When I was young there was a tension between the Arts and Sciences.
And, I believe, science courses continue to be undersubscribed in our universities.
It is a part of the Scottish tradition which seems very much worth preserving.
Disneyland opened in Europe last month, in case you didn't notice.
What an dazzling occasion: the floats, the fireworks, the celebrities, but above all the marketing and PR.
Actually, some areas of the art world seem already to have got there.
Memphis, Tennessee, has created the WONDERS [sic]exhibitions series.
Many critics think not, including two distinguished commentators in these pages (see p. 12).
They know the difference the real and the pretend: a real Matterhorn and Disney's magic mountain.
This has all been good training for his new post.
Reaction among professors and students to his recent elevation have been subdued.
Switzerland may start controlling its art market
David Mellor heads new Department of National Heritage with seat in Cabinet
The new department could include in particular local authority funding for the arts and responsibility for English Heritage.
Key elements of the new department will be the introduction of a national lottery and of a Millennium Fund.
He introduced the Enhancement Fund worth £7.5 million ($13.05 million) over three years.
Barnes seeks to change statutes to allow tour of its paintings
Tokyo and Philadelphia if the indenture banning loans is lifted
Renovations planned at the Barnes are scheduled to coincide exactly with the planned tour.
Glanton's current plans for the Barnes depend entirely on a favourable judgment from the Orphans Court.
The National Gallery has emerged as Glanton's strongest ally.
Lincoln's role in determining the future of the Barnes is bound to be contested bitterly.
Students of the Barnes education classes are also opposing the tour in its current form.
His grievances will be heard by the Orphans Court on 1 May.
As the scheduled tour dates approach, legal fees are mounting for all sides of the Barnes dispute.
Since then developments suggest that the affair may well be resolved amicably.
Three more drawings were then seized at an art dealer's in Lyon in December 1989.
New law may remove all of central museum funding.
Apart from Ukraine, everyone pointed out that such claims are inopportune and dangerous.
However, an event which followed this has caused genuine horror among museum staff and the public at large.
The measures proposed would disrupt the entire state museum system, and would threaten museum collections.
The law envisages practically no central financing for state museums.
If they do not find resources, museums will have to disband, sell or hand over collections.
I will make my views known to the world community and to UNESCO’.
Japanese consortium plans to ship Minto House, stone by stone, to Japan
This case is not without its tragi-comic precedent.
The work of William Adam and W.H.Playfair, it boasted an impressive circular staircase and outstanding plasterwork.
Their intention is to recreate the ambience of the house in its Edwardian heyday.
Shortly afterwards, however, he joined the dealers Colnaghi, where he remained until his retirement in 1968.
It has often been sharpened a bit on the way.
None will dispute that he is in the forefront of English connoisseurs and art historians.
On his courage and sense of public duty there is no need to enlarge.
It is hard to imagine the place without him.
Japan gets a taste of old Holland for $1,657 million
Incongruities include not only hills surrounding the village and the pristine buildings.
The corporation in charge of the project, Huis ten Bosch Co.
Some curators of the Russian Museum are not rejoicing over this ‘victory’.
The disappearance of this monument of totalitarian art is disturbing.
Thankfully in St Petersburg the monuments have survived in situ only the armoured car is missing.
To delegate power and to grant independence are two very different things.
Meet the Impressionists at Auvers-sur-Oise
The story seemed to have everything to meet the commercial demands of Hollywood.
Robert Longo, with several music videos under his belt, is looking for feature films to direct.
Also, their efforts are invariably seen as vanity projects.
One critic simply warned Glimcher: ‘Don't close the gallery yet’.
Glimcher's power however ensures a preemptive silence from detractors within the art world.
The movie business has turned a bit more reticent about the art world since Glimcher's folly.
‘Glimcher killed the market for art people to direct’.
‘He should just go back and learn to draw’.
Stars under consideration for the lead include John Malkovich and Willem Dafoe.
Katz lost interest when producers insisted that David Salle be the film's director.
André, accused of pushing her, was acquitted on murder charges in a controversial trial.
After all, the most successful movie about an artist was ‘Lust for Life’.
Cohen sets a standard toward which any film about architecture should aspire.
Built up between 1908 and 1914 it contains monographs, exhibition and sales catalogues and original Japanese woodcuts.
The move to the new site will make the Doucet collection more accessible.
The numbers speak for themselves: 1.5 million entries, 2.65 million photos so far
Added to this are a couple of million pre-cataloguing or inventorial forms.
Having such information is useful, but it is not the whole story.
Only then can we speak of them as part of our cultural heritage.
Do you think that a ‘full census’ would be a valuable exercise?
A cost-benefit analysis would show it to be uneconomical.
Have all the works kept in public museums been catalogued?
Yes, simply because inventories are kept of all the works on show.
However, progress is being made in this area.
What purpose will these records serve, especially with 1993 in view?
It is vital that we have a policy for cataloguing works of art.
Just let us have the money and the staff we need.
The main thing is that we have a comprehensive plan, now and for the future.
Irish engineer awarded Gold Medal of the Royal Institute of British Architects
Other non-architect winners have included Sir Nikolaus Pevsner.
Notable recent winners include Renzo Piano, Sir Richard Rogers and James Stirling.
Britain's cathedrals get £5.4 million over three years
Czartoryski Museum and Library converted into foundation with advice from London art dealer, Andrew Ciechanowiecki
In Poland, not a single country house has been returned to its rightful owner.
Country houses and town palaces were in varying stages of destruction.
Their contents had mostly been removed to Germany.
Czartoryski's Goluchow is a good example of the problems facing the altruistic grandee.
There are no suggestions yet as to who may succeed Forster.
The full Board of the National Gallery was meeting around 27 April to ratify the appointment.
The amounts ranged from DKr16.1 million (£1.46 million) to DKr 750,000 (£68,000).
The list was a practical joke, a complete fabrication yes a happening even.
Nevertheless, it created a great stir in the Danish art world.
Judge forces purchaser of Chagall to pay up
The Freie Akademie der Künste Hamburg will act as official ‘godparent’.
Good external relations will be vital because the Freie Akademie is poor.
The ruins of ancient architecture create a dramatic stage for British sculptor's works
The exhibition moves to the Metropolitan, New York from 9 May to 12 July.
What happened to the ‘degenerate’ sculptors in Germany before and during the Nazi regime?
Freundlich, Belling, Kolbe, Scheibe, and Marcks are among the other sculptors on show.
Arrested in 1943, he died in the Lublin-Maidanek concentration camp.
Like most of his other work, his ‘new man’ is lost.
Perhaps the most telling figures are Georg Kolbe and Richard Scheibe.
Minneapolis Institute pays tribute to long-serving trustee Bruce B. Dayton
Sculptures include bronzes by Rodin and Maillol, and his most recent gifts, two terracotta figurines by Carpeaux.
‘Celebrating Fifty Years a Trustee: Bruce B. Dayton’ is on view 17 May-16 August.
A 300-page illustrated catalogue accompanies the show.
The restoration has been undertaken by Professor Nonfarmale funded by the Comune di Venezia.
Lyon will be lending more than 200 pieces as well as videos.
The period covered by the exhibition is not entirely unknown to scholars and collectors.
Sixty-one works are presented in the exhibition.
Architect who lacked a genius for self-promotion tours the world
Kahn believed that his work spoke for itself.
Despite the powerful scale of his buildings, he was modest about the role of the architect.
Architecture, he maintained, should be function-led.
(The exhibition travels to the Museum of Modern Art in Gunma, Japan, from 26 September to 3 November).
Canova from start to finish in forty-seven marbles
Major loans from the Hermitage to outstanding show in restored Napoleonic rooms
The exhibition has been installed in the early nineteenth-century rooms of the Museo Correr.
The baroque artists of these maquettes, among them Bernini, Algardi, and Stefano Maderno, all exerted a significant influence on Canova.
The Canova exhibition continues at the Museo Correr until 30 September; the English version of the catalogue is published by Marsilio.
The British section of the exhibition has been curated by Eric Turner of the Victoria and Albert Museum.
About 150 items from the Bremen Collection will be displayed at the exhibition.
They say that the sheets in questions were never stored at the museum.
Both cover not only painting but also the decorative arts.
Boston and Impressionism when you're onto a good thing…
No wonder the MFA has mounted another Impressionist exhibition.
‘European and American Impressionism: Crosscurrents’ examines the various manifestations of the international movement, with special attention to America and France.
Is it Poseidon himself who beckons, or a man overboard?
‘Poseidon’ remains at the Contemporary Arts Museum from 30 May to 26 July.
Memphis, Tennessee's ‘WONDERS’ series outperforms major US museums but is snubbed by them
For 1993, there will be a Napoleonic era show, mostly from the Château de Malmaison.
The city is negotiating future shows with representatives from several foreign countries.
Inside the climate-controlled space, ‘WONDERS’ builds a structure based on the exhibition theme.
‘Rameses’, for example, was given a hypostyle temple-like setting.
The ‘Ottoman’ installation takes as its theme a Topkapi palace courtyard.
Furthermore, respected art handlers have ensured that none of the objects is damaged in transit.
The majority of museum people interviewed had never heard of the ‘WONDERS’ series.
Several factors have contributed to this museum-world ‘blackout’.
Second, there is little or no cooperation with other US museums.
Finally, Memphis is not frequented by most members of the American museum community.
Mr Mandle was more concerned that the city government is usurping the role of its museums.
But the directors of the city's art museums feel they have benefited enormously from ‘WONDERS’.
The convention centre is just as good or better than any museum.
They get some of the best curators in their fields’.
Having seen ‘Catherine’, Mr Hoving had nothing but praise for the exhibition: ‘It was sensational.
One of the best shows I've ever seen.
Better than any of the other museums in the US, with the exception of the National Gallery.
The real reason is they were resentful of the non-museum people in Memphis.
They're usually run by idiots’, he said, ‘stuffed shirt idiots’.
Indeed, the lending museums receive guarantees of several hundred thousand dollars.
Similarly, the ‘Etruscans’ show will cost Memphis and the other venues around $300,000 each.
The lenders wish to profit from sending the shows on tour.
Vogel trained as an architect and was a resident artist at the Polish Royal Court.
‘Master Painter’ was organized by the Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna with the Schirn Kunsthalle Frankfurt and the Washington National Gallery.
A rare outing: Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum lends Sargent to the National Gallery
The last time was in 1987 when they lent a Reynolds to the Pierpont Morgan Library.
The National Gallery is paying for the conservation of the painting.
The more sceptical see Vercruysse's defection simply as a private tiff between the artist and Hoet.
Asked for his reaction Hoet simply said: ‘I hope he will change his mind.
I very much want him to be present at Kassel: he is a major artist’.
An exhibition entitled ‘Ten Years of Discoveries at Burghley’ is at Burghley House, Lincolnshire, until 4 October.
Many furnishings thus appear in different interiors, from Paris to Naples and Poland.
In addition to gifted amateurs, the artists represented include Joseph Nash, Franz Nachtmann, and Eduard Gaertner.
The present exhibition grew out of our director's knowledge of the two collections involved.
Less flamboyant portrait busts of famous contemporaries such as Franz Liszt and Richard Wagner follow.
The throne is decorated with coloured marble, jewelled mosaics, ivory angels, and allegorical reliefs.
Today it is exhibited in the Neues Gewandhaus (the concert hall).
On that occasion, references to the artist's formative work and to his objects and sculpture were omitted.
A fourth bronze sculpture, ‘Le Thérapeute’, is at present on loan to the Tate Gallery.
Preferring a neutral approach for such material, Sylvester has not loaded the catalogue with critical judgements.
But the directors of the museum at that time were so insensitive that they actually discouraged her generous offer.
Fortunately, the present curator is a more enlightened man.’
Belgium's most prestigious museum did benefit to some extent, but far less than anticipated.
The financial aspirations of the legal heirs, however, frustrated any hope of compromise.
Magritte with chess board and painted bottle, photographed by Charles Leirens, 1960.
Magritte produced a number of such painted bottles in the 1940s.
In March 1972 a drawing of one was used as the cover of Playboy Magazine.
The poster was produced in November 1955 to advertise a series of Stroheim films.
‘Belga’, about 1955, Musée royaux des Beaux-Arts de Belgique, Brussels.
As a young man he earned a living from conventional poster design.
The influences of Cubism, Futurism and Dada are evident in such work.
‘La Main heureuse’, sketch and explanatory notes, reproduced in the magazine Rhetorique, October 1962.
Planned before reunification, Bonn's new $ 79.5 million Kunsthalle to open on 19 June
Swedish Director Pontus Hulten emphasises links between arts and sciences
‘The fact that I am a foreigner almost certainly worked in my favour,’ suggests Hulten.
Here, every city has its own traditions and makes its own demands.
Bonn is difficult to define, even for people who work there.
The Kunsthalle will open with a programme of five exhibitions.
Another retrospective is devoted to the work of Gustav Peichl, while a major exhibition entitled ‘Erdsicht.
He symbolises the new situation in the arts in Germany.
The museum catalogued 260,000 works in collections around the world.
The three-year, $5-million campaign, Save Outdoor Sculpture!
Any work publicly or privately owned that is visually accessible to the community will be included.
Participating organisations will receive modest sums to defray recruiting, training and reporting costs.
SOS! is supplying orientation and field training videotapes.
The data will be compiled at the Inventory of American Painting and Sculpture centre at the NMAA.
Since the computer database does not incorporate visual images, corresponding photographs are kept on file.
In 1932 he also bought Brantwood, Ruskin's house in the Lake District overlooking Coniston water.
It is divided between the Isle of Wight and Brantwood, which attracts 30,000 visitors a year.
But the collection is in great need of conservation.
An appeal has been launched to ensure that the scheme goes ahead.
City and Ministry differ over decorative arts museum for Rome
Japanese give millions to Chicago for East Asian galleries
The government of Japan, Mitsubishi Bank Ltd, and the Hong Kong collector T.T.
Tsui who also funded the new Chinese Gallery at the Victoria & Albert Museum contributed $1 million each.
Curator of Asian Art, Yutaka Mino was instrumental in precipitating the Far East windfall.
‘We are very fortunate to have made this bridge’.
‘This is the first time you really see everything’, he told The Art Newspaper.
The Art Institute's ten-year reinstallation programme will conclude in 1994 with phase two of the modern collections.
The East Asian galleries open to the public on 3 June.
Works of art in their context spiced with theatre and dignified with didacticism
Anne d'Harnoncourt, Director of the Philadelphia Museum is reinstalling its European collection and integrating the Johnson Collection Old Masters
The Philadelphia Museum of Art will enter the twenty-first century with a logical new presentation of European art.
What led you to undertake the reinstallation, and what do you hope to accomplish?
We've been working on the project for quite some time.
In the museum right now, both physical and intellectual distances separate objects of the same period, style and culture.
We now hope to bring together a much more coherent ‘walk through time’.
Under what terms is the Johnson Collection housed in the museum?
The Johnson Collection was bequeathed to the city in 1917.
Besides yourself and Joe Rishel, Senior Curator of the Johnson Collection, did other professionals participate in the planning?
Michel Laclotte came at the time he was working on the Musée D'Orsay.
Neil Harris, an historian of American museums at the University of Chicago, offered a very useful perspective.
One museum that does this in a different way is the Cleveland Museum.
But works of art in all media are presented together in historical periods.
Of course, certain European museums, in their particular region and era, cannot be matched.
I mean, we can't be Fontainebleau or Versailles!
What will be coming out of storage?
The nineteenth century in general, and the decorative arts in particular across the board.
Will the reorganisation affect the museum's capacity to present temporary exhibitions?
Has the board raised the money to pay for the reinstallation?
We have also been receiving wonderful gifts ongoing I hope from individual contributors.
In total, we have received about $4.3 million.
Morgan, Standard Oil, the Pennsylvania Railroad, U.S. Steel and the American Tobacco Company.
The Johnson Collection includes 1,279 works, with masterpieces of Netherlandish, Early Italian and nineteenth-century painting:
Whistler ‘Purple and Rose: the Lange Leizen of the six marks’
The Museum Boymans van Beuningen has opened a separate branch in Holland's tallest building.
Salvador Allende Foundation has requested help from Barcelona to create a new art museum in Chile
These include some 300 Spanish works, many of notable quality.
Goodbye to Prints and Drawings curators at the National Gallery of Scotland?
It is foolish to departmentalise in this way, and so I want to blur the distinctions.
We also have a nucleus of prints by William Klein, donated by Virginia Zabriskie.
But these were accidental acquisitions; they were not collected as part of a coherent plan’.
The possibility of a new wing to house the future photographic collections is under discussion.
ICOM is based at the Maison de l'Unesco, Paris.
France has her Julius II so where is her Michelangelo?
To an Anglo-Saxon outsider this critique of Mitterrand's grand projets is long overdue.
Mr Pei's pyramid in the Louvre is fine architecture, but it is nothing other than a new front door.
What matters are the collections, and they remain as poorly exhibited as ever.
The new cultural dispensation, Fumaroli argues, began not with André Malraux, but with Vichy.
What Malraux and de Gaulle began, Pompidou continued with le Centre Beaubourg, a Maison de Culture for Paris itself.
At Beaubourg the full prestige of the French State was allied to the architectural and artistic avant-garde.
It had incorporated everyone who could proclaim that the emperor was naked.
For the State only promotes a trendy avant-garde; popular and bourgeois classics receive short shrift.
By embracing popular culture, Fumaroli argues, Lang has contributed to the erosion of clear cultural standards.
Lang's rhetoric of inclusion and participation conceals a deep confusion about what constitutes worthwhile art.
All of the republican themes of French history were reprocessed as a Hollywood spectacular for tourists.
Citizens were not even allowed to sing the Marseillaise for themselves.
Jessye Norman, clad in a tricolour, was there to do it for them on TV.
The most interesting aspect of Fumaroli's essay concerns his treatment of Lang's policies towards American culture.
Fumaroli's book is much more than a polemic against the artistic policies of one government.
In France, Fumaroli's polemic has been welcomed from the Right and dismissed by the Left.
Yet it is much more than an attack on the policies of a given minister.
His analysis of French cultural decadence is excessively obsessed with the State.
Fumaroli argues as if Le Roi Soleil still proposed and disposed in cultural matters.
Pierre Rosenberg, Chief Curator of Paintings at the Louvre, also rebels at the use of ‘culture’
The phrase ‘artistic culture’ should already have put me on my guard.
Used for all purposes, in all situations and by everybody, it makes one feel rebellious.
This argument has weight, but is easily overturned.
And yet, in the last ten years, what upheavals there have been.
A meretricious populism and pretentious sectarianism have between them squeezed out everything else.
Art no longer appeals to the senses or the passions; it is mere mannerism.
Soon Manet and Monet will have unseated our Bouguereau and Meissonier.
A great small drawings show in pursuit of the unknowable
This important breakthrough gives us hope for the future’.
But the exhibits themselves contribute relatively little to an understanding of the phenomenon.
Equally, there is little evidence here of a significant debt to Milanese precedents.
After the clarity of the earlier rooms the later part of the exhibition therefore comes as something of a disappointment.
The label on the tin recommends it for church furniture and floors’.
Shortly before going to press The Art Newspaper learnt of the resignation of Mrs Baak.
Claudio Strinati was named Soprintendente for Rome's artistic and historic heritage in September last year.
If all goes well the Borghese Gallery should reopen within a year.
Strinati believes in the closest possible collaboration between restorer and art historian.
The entire restoration project is fully described in a forthcoming publication by Ello De Rosa.
High-tech raids Davy Jones's locker and sells at auction
In Greenwich Dr Ballard's work was described as serious, exciting and educational.
Non-compliance with Security Council's resolutions holds up UNESCO mission
More than 4,000 museum items missing according to Director General of the Iraqi Antiquities Department
Some of these items are believed to have been smuggled abroad.
The term ‘antiquities’ covers all buildings and objects from historical sites, including manuscripts.
The stolen items include daggers, chairs, mirrors, various garments, domestic implements, and carpets.
Seven rooms of Rome's Gregorian Etruscan Museum refurbished courtesy of Americans
The first seven rooms of the Gregorian Etruscan Museum have been reopened to the public.
The second stage of the work should be completed by the beginning of next year.
In 1988, the American Patrons of the Vatican Museums decided to buy the rest of the valuable collection.
But the ransom was paid, the girl returned, and the collection went to the Vatican.
The newly reopened galleries used to be the reception rooms of the Medici Pope Pius IV.
The tomb was added to the collection in the early years of the century.
The emergency import restriction on cultural artifacts from El Salvador has been extended for another three years.
The decision was announced by the Deputy Director of the United States Information Agency, Eugene P. Kopp.
It follows the recommendation of the Cultural Property Advisory Service, a Presidential committee of experts.
The tomb is around 2,000 years old and bears the inscribed name ‘Yusuf Bar Kaifas’.
The wall paintings, discovered in 1952, were the only ones of their kind in the Aveyron region.
The Giza Plateau contains some of Egypt's most celebrated sites including the Great Pyramid and the Sphinx.
Other projects currently being undertaken by the Practice include a Unesco-commissioned survey of Angkor Wat, Cambodia.
She selected thirty-two Sumerian and Akkadian works, dating from 3300 to 2000 BC.
His interest in drawings dates from his youth and from his own enthusiasm for drawing.
‘When I was young, drawings, although of enormous importance, were undervalued and little studied.
It is a source of enormous satisfaction to him that they later came round to his view.
There is a vast amount of material’, says Degenhart, ‘perhaps too much.
It is a project which will exceed my lifetime’.
Degenhart and Schmitt's work has been honoured in Italy with prizes and memberships of several Italian Academies.
Two books on Anthony Caro as the exhibition of his work opens in Rome 20 May
The bibliography of Sir Anthony Caro can hardly keep pace with his protean output.
The intervening volumes, and Volume IX, continues to chart works in different groups.
Even a detractor of Caro would want to own this book just for the photography.
British portraiture from 1660 to 1960 charted brilliantly by a relay of scholars
The most interesting writer is Kenneth McConkey who deals with the Edwardian era.
All this comes out in Worsley's excellent introduction, a very valuable addition to the literature on the subject.
He was an enthusiastic amateur of the best sort, perhaps a little hasty in his attributions.
Let us hope that others may do the same.
But all these matters are the stuff for scholars to decide.
Books submitted will be assessed both for their scholarship and for their accessibility to the general reader.
Yale University Press has acquired the prestigious Pelican History of Art series from Penguin Books.
Previous volumes, whose authors include Wittkower, Haskell, Baxandall and Girouard, will be updated with colour illustrations.
Meanwhile existing stocks of the old paperbacks will be reduced in price to £16.95.
The Church in Russia gets back more buildings but books are now homeless
Pan has been struggling financially: last year alone, advertising revenue fell by 20%.
Both books must be in English and have been published between 31 December 1989 and 31 December 1991.
Five awards of £5,000 each are made annually.
